This is Jocopardcast number 191 with echo Charles and me, Jocca Willink. Good evening, echo. Good evening.
Some nights I wake up, drenched in sweat.
I have dreams and some people might call them nightmares, but that would not be accurate.
Because I'm not scared and I'm not anxious. I'm actually amped and I'm ready.
And the dream is usually about some bad situation unfolding really quickly.
Some operation gone, the sideways.
And I'm building somewhere or a bunker or a ravine of some kind.
And the enemy is maneuvering.
And they're bringing it.
And then with a small group, a squad maybe six or eight guys.
And we're low on ammo.
And I'm about out.
And one of the guys is hit and he's hit bad and we can't move.
And we can't leave.
And this is it.
And the enemy is pressing closer.
And I'm prepping grenades.
And as I'm prepping grenades, I got my head down because they're laying down fire and the enemy is advancing.
And we're killing some of them, but others are getting through.
And the enemy fire increases.
And if I'm in a building, I hear the door open up.
And I can hear them entering the building.
And I do a quick assessment. I got three grenades and I got a half a mag left and I got my K bar.
Then I'm ready to get it on.
And I pulled a pin on one of the grenades and I rolled it down the hallway toward the stairs and it explodes.
And then I hear RPGs launch.
And one explodes a little distance away, but then the next one explodes on the wall right near me.
And it knocks me out.
And then I come to and I check for my rifle and grab him for my rifle, but it's not there.
And so I reach for my pistol.
But my pistol's gone too.
And then I feel for the rest of my gear.
I feel for my knife.
I feel for grenades and there's nothing there.
And then I realize that I'm okay.
That I'm just sweating a lot.
But there's no gear. There's no guns.
And I realize that I was asleep and that this was just a dream.
And now I'm laying there in a pool of sweat in my bed.
And I'm awake.
And I'm actually mad because I left my boys hanging there in my dream.
And I'm also mad because I don't get that final confrontation with the enemy.
And I'll sit there and close my eyes and I'll try and fall back asleep.
I'll try and force myself back in there so I can finish the fight.
I can't force myself to fall back asleep.
So I lie there in bed.
And I start thinking about what I would have done.
I start thinking if there's any mistakes that I made.
I start thinking about how I could have defended that position,
where I would have maneuvered to,
how I could have maximized damage to the enemy.
And then I think about the rest of the guys on the team.
And I think if I was in that situation,
who would I want with me?
And this was, this was a common topic in the teams.
If you were in a desperate scenario,
but the odds stacked against you,
if it was time for the last stand,
for victory or death,
who would you want with you?
I have a list of those names.
Those men,
a list of the guys I want with me,
in that most critical of moments.
And when I think about that list,
there's always one guy that comes to mind first.
A guy that I've seen perform on the battlefield,
not for an hour,
not for a day or not for a week,
but for months on end,
this guy would go out on a three day operation
in 120 degree heat,
with two liters of water, three cans of Copenhagen.
And twice as many bullets as anyone else.
And as soon as the mission was over,
he'd want to go back out again.
This is a guy that can lead,
and that can follow a guy that can plan and execute.
The guy that never put himself above the good of the mission,
or above the good of his teammates.
And I know without a shred of doubt,
that he would have rather himself be killed,
or wounded than watch me be killed,
or wounded.
He would step into the line of fire,
take a bullet,
or jump on a grenade to protect me,
or any of our brothers in arms.
That's the guy I'm talking about.
And the other thing is,
I know what he's thinking,
and he knows what I'm thinking.
And there's no need to even talk,
where we were raised at the same team by the same people.
We don't have to debate or discuss whether we should do this or do that.
We look at each other,
give a little nod,
and we know what we need to do.
So if I have to assault a beach,
or attack a bunker,
or storm the gates of hell,
I want my brother Tony a fratty by my side,
BTF Tony,
big tough frogman.
And that's what he is through and through,
and that's what he did for his entire career through eight overseas deployments.
He was one of the first guests I had on the podcast,
podcast number 41.
If you haven't listened to that podcast,
stop and go back and listen to it.
But if you had to have listened to it,
well,
then here we go again with BTF Tony,
welcome back.
Yeah, let's just,
it deployments are 10, 10 deployments.
No, let's just get back because I didn't want you to get wounded,
because you're such a monster,
that's a carry-in.
It'd be a little better if I go wounded these years.
I could put you in my cargo pocket.
Yeah, BTF's great big tough,
I'm not really tired.
Wack of do,
so last time you were on,
we kind of just jumped right into like going into the teams and everything.
And,
which meant we skipped over a bunch of stuff,
I mean not a bunch, but I mean, because I know you're going to put it.
Why would you grow up? Why grew up?
Yeah, maybe, maybe, and that's it.
So, so you grew up in New England.
Yeah, New Hampshire.
And, and did you play sports?
Yeah, I played hockey in baseball.
Did they issue you a hockey stick when you were born in New Hampshire?
Yeah, it's pretty much,
you get one in kindergarten,
and then you play street hockey,
and then you learn how to, you know,
like, wrap up your buddies and then get your ass kicked,
and then you just keep playing.
Did you play organized hockey?
Yeah, yeah, I played Rekhockey, I played youth hockey,
all the way up to I was like 17.
Yep, played all my life, three years old till,
like, 17.
You kept all your teeth?
Yeah, pretty much.
I played,
might squirt,
bannoms, and midgets, and sport categories,
which means wise.
Yeah, I played a lot of hockey, and,
until I got a little bit older, and then, you know, I had to work.
Yeah, so schoolwork, one lot of time for it,
and I realized it wasn't going to be like wicked goods,
so I just, it was fun.
Yeah, it was like, yeah, okay, chapter my life, and that's it.
But I still love hockey, you know, a lot of it, you know, big fan.
And, like, when I was a kid,
we would play like out on lakes,
because I didn't play at work, and I was talking to you.
Yeah, yeah, we would tape a magazines to our shins,
because we didn't have, like, the actual year.
So we would just do that, that way when you get
shwacked with a puck or a stick, you're not just done.
Not, but even the summer is like,
people my age, your age,
everybody knows what I'm talking about, like Saturday morning,
when you're a little mother would give you breakfast,
they get the hell out, come back and lunch.
So I went in my room and went in my little computer and
have any of that.
So we went, like, we rocks at each other or play baseball and a field.
Yeah, you see, your mom would say, come home for lunch.
My mom would just say, get out.
But then the funny thing is, when, when it was like,
oh, it's time to eat, it'd be like, oh, cool.
I'm going to get a Snickers bar and a can of Coke.
That's what we ate. That's what we ate. That's what we ate.
It wasn't like, we need to watch your content.
What the fuck is it?
It was cool.
Some stuff that floats around in the sky.
I don't know what that is.
Apparently people would allergic to it.
I don't fucking know.
You know, I always knew about the peanuts and the shellfish and all that shit.
Not really eating.
You know, man, you know, it's on the table either.
That's it. Don't eat.
Yeah.
I just, the things, they didn't even all catch myself.
You know, with my kids going, you know, you don't want to drink that soda.
And I'm thinking about when I was a kid, just that's, that's all we drink.
We didn't drink the first of all.
There's no such thing as bottled water.
No, no, that's still that calm.
You drink it out of the tap.
It's better than avian or whatever the fuck it is, you know.
It's like the best. It's like so good.
I feel like fill up the right and sink and it's still the best.
So you played hockey and then what, what?
When you went to high school, did you guys have a hockey team at your high school?
Now the next the next town dead, but we didn't have a high school team.
Dad, you thought you'd.
So then you read, did you play anything and did you play any sports in high school?
Just baseball.
Yeah, and then I, I sucked it at, but I played a little league and played into my junior high.
I bet I sucked at baseball more than you, which was a bummer.
My dad was like a fanatic about baseball and I was out there going, this is the most boring thing
I've ever done in my whole life ever.
Like, yeah, this is, I could, you know, because I was, whatever, seven years old.
But I like, I stand there.
I like it because now I watch baseball and I know I get the appeal, Mal,
but what I'm saying is when I was seven year old,
that freaking hyperactive youth and my dad's like, you know, this is a great game.
You got to understand the tactics and the strategy behind what's going on.
You're care about it and I'm like,
because the funnest thing, like the funnest sport that I remember playing that I said,
Oh, this is cool.
Was dodgeball.
That was violent.
Yeah, you're like, oh, hug the balls at the other people.
That was fun.
It was like highly active.
Yeah. So we played racquet, a racquet hockey though, and I was a kid too.
And that was all on outdoor rinks.
That's awesome.
wooden boards and be like 10 boys there and they flooded.
And then like my uncle was the coach of one of the weeks.
And he was terrible like he didn't even know to skate, but he had no idea about how to play hockey.
You just kill him.
We'd have checking practice for an hour.
Just go out there and check each other like really.
You know, I didn't.
I was like, I mean, I know how to play.
I know the rules.
And this is what we're doing.
All right.
Just go out there and kill each other.
Yeah, you and I were talking about the fact that hockey players are getting smaller again now.
Yeah, there was a there was like, yes, because this is this one.
I went talk to the goals, the San Diego goals,
and their coach was explaining to me because I said, man, the guys are smaller than I expected.
Some of them.
Yeah.
And he said, I said, I thought everyone was huge.
Now.
And he said, no, because now what they figured out is these smaller faster quicker guys have a have an advantage that they can exploit maneuverability.
Just like on the battlefield, you can exploit being able to maneuver.
And these smaller quicker guys can actually maneuver faster than the bigger lumbering guys.
Now there's position for the bigger guys, too.
Yeah, you got to have a mix.
Yeah, so that's what they're figured out.
Yeah, that's a different.
So if you were to go back in time, you might be able to hack it now.
Yeah.
I played sports, but my real thing was like hot and efficient and trapping.
And I did all that shit.
So that kind of took a higher step.
That was a press.
That's what I like.
I'm already free. Yeah. I like being out in the woods hunting.
Was your dad in the military? Yes, my dad was in the army in 60s.
Drop did.
He wasn't in Vietnam. He went to Germany.
He was a helicopter mechanic.
He's over in Germany.
Yeah.
Coolest and richest guy ever.
Right.
Yeah. Like drink beer and you know, go to work every day and end.
And did he talk to you about the military doll?
What made you want to join the night?
Because did you join right out of high school?
Yeah, I enlisted when I was, uh, see.
Six days after I turned 17 day.
So I was in delayed entry for you.
And then I went six days after I turned 18.
What made you want to join the Navy?
Because this is the thing.
This is the thing that I tried to warn people about the Navy.
If you want to go in the Navy and be in the SEAL teams, that's cool and everything.
If you don't make it in the SEAL teams, your job is not going to be that cool.
I mean, unless you're into that kind of thing, because there's some people that want to work with technology.
That's cool. You'll be an ITman in the Navy.
Or you want to work with engines and you're being engine men.
Or you want to be a gunner. Like that's cool.
If that's what you want to do. But those are industrial type jobs.
Yeah, they're not really job. They're not really job.
They're industrial jobs. They're trades.
In the army, like if you don't make it to special forces or you don't make it to Rangers or in the Marine Corps, if you don't make the Marsock,
you can still be an infantryman, which means you're still getting to get an actor.
Do the machine gun thing, which is pretty much what I think most people when they join the military.
Well, I shouldn't say most people.
If you're even thinking about special operations, then you want to, you want to be using the machine gun.
Well, yeah, I mean, you want to have a machine gun and everyday wife.
I mean, we're coming so handy to eliminate a lot of, you're bringing a hot shit.
You know what, you're waiting in traffic, just get out, excuse me folks.
You should go light down. Okay.
It would be so much easier.
I mean, it's legal, but you know.
So you, but you, what did you join the Navy to be?
Or do you just be like, I want to be a, I want to be a frog man, but it took me a while.
It took me a couple years to go to Buds.
How did you know about this, what year was this? Like 86?
Yeah, I knew about the seal teams.
I wanted to do it, but the thing that helped me the most was actually doing like two years in the fleet.
And yeah, it's two years I could have been a team guy, but for me, I wasn't ready.
It wasn't mature enough. So I had, I needed that structure and I wanted how the Navy works.
And it brought you people out there and all that.
I was stationed in the Philippines for two years.
It's not like I wasn't on a boat.
I was just drinking and you know, just being a madman.
And of course, the seal teams were over there, you know, the West Coast guys.
Yeah, I mean, I'm not as well just do that. That's like the best.
So I was a bit ridiculous. You're 17 years old and you get, you get 18 stations in Subic and Subic.
As a what, my anman, almost a lineman.
It's like sure, dude. You know, but it's like overseas duty.
There's the best in the battle.
Did they give you, did they give you kind of like briefing as this 18 year old kid?
Like, okay, you're in the Philippines now.
This is what's about.
I just tell you because it's all about those all kinds of hookers and that's like the main thing.
Back then was hookers and drinking. There was like 250 bars in like a city block.
And you know, I made like $200 every two weeks.
And I always had money.
Yeah, because it was like, we go to like happy hour or whatever.
And then morning like Saturday morning at like teased havern or wherever it was on Gordon Avenue.
And it was like nickel for the.
So I really like weren't my polish and my drinking skills like big time over there.
And of course, it's a thousand degrees out and it's just like,
So much fun.
Yeah, when I my first two years, you're just like, okay, I mean, come on.
He's actually had enough of it. Well, I wanted to get on with, you know, I got,
I took my screen task at orders to buds and was like, all right.
And back then, now they got this big fucking pipeline and all this.
I flew in the corner.
I don't want to Friday.
Sunday we had a class up party, which is you shave your head.
There's a cake of being a get liquor to up and then be idiots.
And then Monday morning you start this day one.
So you checked it on Friday, shaved your head on Sunday.
Hey, one class up on Monday. That's it. Yep. Here we go. Did you get rolled?
I got rolled in the second phase, which nobody does.
I think it hurt.
I just wouldn't leave my slim body.
What happened?
My swim buddy.
On a swim on like a time.
I'm like, I, well, you can't leave your swim buddy.
Right. So what do you do? Yeah.
You fail. Yeah.
And you just take it in the shitter and then, and then like the next,
well, you know, next class, like I was like me and bring the cheese man.
He's dead now.
Yeah.
We're like, the top three swim pairs.
My, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my.
I failed to swim.
We can't, you can't, you can't.
So I go.
They, they bring us to the first phase office.
And I'm standing with my swim buddy.
And they're like, all right.
And they, there was a, you know, 10 or 12 or 15 pairs failed to swim.
So they're asking everyone like they're calling us in the office.
The first phase office by the bell.
So me and my swim buddy get called in.
We're like number seven to get called in.
I couldn't hear what everyone else was saying, but I didn't know what that was going on.
I was just like scared. I wanted to do one to make it through this training.
So we go in there.
And so there's something called guiding, which is like the person that when you're swimming in the open ocean,
you have to, it's basically steering, but you call it guiding for some reason, you know, you guide, so make sure swimming in the direction.
So they go, you know, you two next pair of getting here.
So we walk in, I'm standing in attention.
What the hell happened to you two?
And my swim buddy points at me and goes, willing, doesn't know how to guide.
Oh my god.
And I was like, and the guy was a slow swimmer like that was the problem.
And he was, that was the problem.
Yeah, but and so I'm standing there.
Just going damn, I just got just got dying out for something. I've even knew.
So I just kept my mouth shut and it was like, I'll do better, right?
And then what they did was they split us up and they put us with good swimmers.
And then the same thing like meet me and my new swim buddy on the next swim came in like fifth or seventh or something.
I wouldn't get to come in first or second because I was not enough that.
No, because you got some of those fuckers in there that are swimming like 17 knots.
Yeah, but this guy failed to get.
Yeah, and it was like, oh, maybe it wasn't a wheeling.
Yeah, really screwed you over.
But it was all right, you know, I just had to wait for weeks, five weeks.
Get back in and it was fine.
And then, and then you, you graduated buds.
Were you good in the water when you showed up at buds?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Did you grow up swimming in lakes? No, it's just something you got to do.
Like, like, how many times was I in the woods with people in the teams?
From, you know, New York or Jacksonville, Florida or New York City or Chicago.
They're like, what the fuck? What, what, man, it's dark.
Like, who would say that? It's dark. It's dark.
It's dark. It's night. The fuck.
What do you think we're going to do? Like, go, you know, just lunch.
We're going to go on lunch and be eating in an owl.
So it's just one of those things you got to do.
There's some people that don't do that very well.
I know, I had a guy in my class, like a super stud wrestler from Iowa,
but he never went in the water and dude.
He was my swim buddy in, uh, in like the pool phase,
where they're doing like the stuff and the pool with you.
Yeah, well, you, I actually got a buddy of the stuff on your,
so we're doing buddy breathing and this dude is taking the regulator and breathing
47 breast and roll, giving it back to me. I'd take like a breath and a half.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, like dude, relax.
He's still, he still popped to the surface.
And yeah, he didn't make it. He didn't make it because he would just freak out in the water.
So, yeah, man, I was lucky, you know, up in Maine as a little kid went in the water all the time.
Because the water never freaked me out. I just hit my fly and people out, man.
But that's the whole thing. You have to be competent in the water.
Like when you're underneath the ship and you're de-rigin' and all that,
then everybody's like, right next to each other and you just see anything.
There's just like courts floating around my god.
People think like it's all, you watch the movies, they go, they show them diving,
then all of a sudden they show them climbing the ship, like,
what about all the shit in between?
You're missing like the biggest fucking portion that's terrible.
You're under the air and it's like,
what the fuck is that in the water?
It's everywhere. And the guy's kicking you in the mask and then you've got to deal with that.
And it's just fucking some other dude that's like sinking to the bottom.
Yeah, I can you down and it's like, why is the line?
What is all this pressure going in this way for?
That wasn't the plan, but you re-hurt this like forty time.
You can't communicate anything.
It's all just nothing. It's all just nothing. Yeah, it's just not really.
And you just after a while, it's like survival.
Like you just got to not die.
And then somehow it usually works out.
Next thing, you know, you draw on the surface and everything is easy.
And then you got to go back.
I think that's what makes the team's good.
I think what makes the team's good is when you have to deal with all that crap of whether it's going over the beach,
just to do a land warfare up, but you come over the beach,
or, you know, derigging underwater or a combat swimmer up or rigging the boats or whatever,
when you add the water and it just makes it, it's all real real good.
You're so much freaking out. Even in training, it's real world.
Yeah, you can drown down.
You can, I mean, but the bud's thing, like,
I didn't grow up syrup on running that stuff, but the other things, I didn't have a plan B.
Yeah, that was easy for me. I never even thought about quitting anything.
I mean, it was like, why? There's nothing else to do.
Yeah.
I mean, everything else is just garbage, junk and like,
I'm not, no, I have to do this. This is what I have to do because it's like the best.
Yeah, I, I never thought about quitting at all.
And it was weird. I had my class that was from the fleet.
And he was like, man, you don't want to go to the fleet, dude.
It's you don't do not want to go to the fleet.
And blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And he quit again.
Yeah, well, and I just was like, man, really?
We had these serial quitters that had come back and come back and like,
after a while, you know, give up.
Like, what's that, the person you don't succeed try try again?
How many try?
And then quit. And it's just being a damn fool about it, you know?
But I just didn't have a plan B.
You know, did, did you do any of the water stuff when you were in
Superbick Bay? Did you did any of the team guys show you like,
not tying or any of it?
No, not at all.
I did, I did dive though.
I got my like, okay, there you go.
That's good.
Because diving, like when you, I've never done that,
but when you go through like the basic, do they do some kind of,
Yeah, you do like, quite a lot of everything, but it's like,
the big, the big, beautiful red dude.
Yeah, and you're like, okay, and then take your mask off and then
blow through, yeah, okay, clear your mask and,
yeah, whatever.
But that's definitely helpful.
But it was fun.
I mean, it was something to do.
It was like drinking all the time.
So I did that like one weekend and then it was like, yeah,
is that how long it takes to get one of those qualifications?
Yeah, you go to some classes and pool and then they take you and
then swoop it like, like, flip, flop, I want.
It's actually really nice, man.
Yeah, man, when I got the little card,
remember you went through Buds and you get,
why don't you have this for you?
Yeah, they did.
Yeah, so I got look a little card that said I was qualified.
Like I could go rent, dive her.
Yeah, and I don't know where that is.
Lost it.
Yeah, fucking.
But when I had that thing, that thing, I got that,
and I thought I was kind of the band.
You know, I was like, you know, I would look at it from, you know,
be my wallet, look at it like, oh, yeah.
You feel like you're the Jesus.
Yeah, it's like, I felt like I was James Bond's like who cares.
Whatever.
No, not even a thing anymore.
No, not nothing.
Kind of like when I got issue my first floppy hat.
Oh, yeah, I thought, yeah, well, he arrived.
Yeah, I'm ready to go to know.
I know.
Oh, it's like, that's like, like you said last time, I think I thought I was going to be a nom, like that day.
Yeah, I know, but I still have my first floppy hat.
I have a cost you do.
Yeah, just keep everything.
I don't, I didn't keep anything.
You might need it one day.
Now I kept my floppy hat.
I don't have a shadow box.
I have a shadow box that someone made me, like,
these good friends of mine who used to do that,
living like make coins,
made it for me as a pair of it.
And my room somewhere is like not, I don't know where any of my medals.
Yeah, I'm like just such a loser when it comes to that shit.
One time I was in my son's room when he was like,
maybe seven or no, he's probably nine or ten years old.
And I'm like looking for something.
I figured he took it and I'm walking around.
Who stole my, yeah, exactly.
There's an all the time.
I stepped on something and it's like sharp.
And I'm like, oh, it's underneath a pile of my kids clothes.
I'm holding out and it's like, a bunch of a bunch of my medals.
You know, a little rack of my alcohol.
Whatever.
Yeah, life.
Life's like,
life said to me,
man, we never got you anything for to you.
I'm going to get you something.
He's been saying that for like 10 years.
I mean, he's busy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So that's why I don't have any kind of nothing.
The guys when I retired gave me a big giant,
I was like, I'm not saying it.
I'm not saying it.
I'm saying it.
That's like, I'm pretty cool.
I'm pretty cool.
I'm really, yeah.
I'm just having a corner with all my weight lifting bars.
I have it in there.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Everyone's well, if I, I feel like if I, if someone breaks into my house.
I'm also spear him though, like through the midsection.
Yeah.
And then like get the war, you know.
And then you both can lift up like,
I think going.
Be a good picture.
All right.
So you get done with buds.
No factor.
Whatever.
You show up at T-1.
And did you get put into a patuna immediately?
Yeah.
And it's now what?
1989?
Yeah.
So is the Gulf War on the horizon yet?
Or not, no way.
So Kuwait has not been invaded yet or it has been invaded.
But we're not sure we're going to do that.
That has been August 6th.
And when did you get to the team?
Like December.
Okay.
So it took about nine months.
So you showed up at the team.
There's no war going on.
But we had to go through SBI.
Okay.
And then I have SQT back there.
SBI.
I still basic in doc.
And they just grabbed a bunch of guys.
And it was actually really square away at T-1.
Yeah.
You did land warfare.
You did demo.
All your weapons and shit.
But trolling tactics.
You did maritime air.
You know, rubber ducks.
Lump ducks all that shit.
You did a photo intel.
Like all kinds of stuff.
Infilled developing.
Yeah.
I was just talking to this camera guy.
I up in my homings.
I told him I used to do that.
Wow.
Now it's all like digital camp.
Yeah.
You ain't got to do any of that.
Of course, spend hours and hours doing that.
And then a lot of shooting basic shooting.
You know, shot and 14 till your trigger and fingers go.
Because you were not a man if you didn't carry them 14.
Well, yeah, because it was like the past.
My bicep would get bruised from shooting the M14.
Because, and I know people say,
because it would be like move like you can't just keep it.
There have all time.
No, it's like gigantic.
That's why the M14 God bless its soul.
Such a great weapon.
Remember how many malfunctions you had with it?
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I had one.
Somebody else's shell from an M from an M16 went and like went.
Lodged somehow into my ejector port.
Well, yeah.
In the middle of whatever.
Yeah.
But yeah, those things are freaking accurate.
They didn't survive the,
how do I put it?
The rail system.
Once everything started becoming attachments and shit.
They tried to do it.
And then the gun was like 360 pounds.
So it never really,
but back then, the M16 was basically a piece of shit.
And even the NR727, the carpetteens,
that whole evolution leading up to the M4,
they got better and better and better and more reliable.
You know, it just makes sense on the battlefield.
If you're, you've got an M4, you've got a, you know,
by by six.
You work with the Marines, the Army.
You can always go anywhere and get some more ammo.
It's like who has strip clip friggin,
308 ammo.
You know, 762, nobody.
You know, do you ain't get up to 60?
That got to be a wicked pain in the ass.
Anyway, but it was a great gun.
I mean, I still love the thing.
You put that front side on there, Mr.
Yeah.
As far as I get the X and night vision,
it didn't make the cutting.
Yeah.
My take about, you know.
I still have one.
That's the like my primary battle rifle.
Oh, it's great.
Yeah.
100% is going to work.
I mean, if shit goes down,
chaos in the streets,
and you're like on a cold as act,
you could come out with that.
I mean, I have a fucking Tommy gun, is what I'd have.
My fedora on.
You're black and everybody, but you know,
you fantasize about stuff.
Yeah.
I mean, it's just, it's Tuesday afternoon.
What are you going to do?
I mean, yeah.
I mean, I mean, come on.
Hey, you want to go to the bar and get liquored up.
Yeah, I'll be scrub my Tommy gun real quick.
What?
Yeah.
So SBI.
You go through your load of bunch of stuff.
I had STT.
It's what they called it when I went through.
Yeah.
And then good dudes teach us that stuff.
Oh, it was great because you still got kind of treat you like shit.
But you were at, you know,
you weren't a new guy. You weren't a bud just do.
Yeah, you were getting treated like a little bit better than a bud's guy.
Then did you get, then you got a sign to a platoon?
Yes, sir.
I got a sign to, uh, alphanctum, siltin one.
And so in the old days, alphanctum met you a ride in a boat.
Yes, uh, hargalfa.
I didn't care.
Did you know anything?
You're just like, oh, yeah, whatever.
I'm in a platoon.
How many new guys were in your first platoon?
We had a few.
We had like, uh, because sometimes they used to stack the argplotains with more new guys.
We had, uh, because we wanted to fill that thing up because no one wanted to do an unarg flow.
Wow, you know, new guy.
I am new to you.
No, that's what I'm saying.
So it'd be like, oh, okay, if there's bud's put all the new guys in there.
Yeah.
And let them flow.
But you got, you had a badass LPO.
I did.
I had an LPO leading patty officer who was one of my bud's instructors.
What was he like as a bud's instructor?
Quiet and like, mean looking like, kind of like, if you don't do this, you're just a big pussy.
You know, or the, you guys aren't putting out and just, just like,
because he was good at, how did he, oh, he was wicked.
He was good at everything.
Once he became my LPO, like he was good at shooting.
He was good at shooting. He was good at all water stuff.
He grew up like somewhere in California.
And kayak. He could kayak.
He was really good skydiver.
Yeah.
He was just good at everything.
Everything.
Mount nearing.
So respected.
Yeah.
And freaking nice man.
Yeah, he's a great guy.
I'm going to actually see him here.
All right.
By the time this podcast is probably,
I'm going to visit him somewhere in the country here.
But he did, I think, 20 years after that is a state trooper there.
Yeah.
I think it was Alaska, I'm pretty sure.
But he's just, he thrived in that environment.
And he was a good teacher.
Like he'd take us and go, okay, guys,
here's, here's how you do this.
You're like 80% correct.
Yeah.
He was a 20% that you suck at.
And here's how to get better at it.
And he's like, you know, like, Roger that.
I mean, he was just, and a good dude.
The reason I know him is because when he got back from that deployment,
he took over CQC or CQB at T1.
He was the CQB instructor.
So he put me and my first work up through CQB.
And he was the first guy that I was looking at.
My maybe not the first guy, but he might have been.
He was the first guy I was looking at going.
He's, there's a lot of going on here.
There's a lot like, yeah.
And just a mechanical thing of your going through and your clearing rooms.
Like there's, there's, there's thought happening here.
There's, there's intentional decisions being made.
Like I could see, I could see that with a way he would,
the explain things.
I'd be thinking, okay, he knows like some more,
a lot more than, oh yeah.
Then a lot of us other guys do.
Yeah.
And he explained some little detail.
And you'd say, oh, and it would make sense to me.
You know, I'd be thinking, wow, that makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, he'd say stuff like, you know, room combat shit.
He'd say, like, well, what are you doing that?
Like, well, we're done here.
We're going to go there.
Well, what about deconstruction?
Like, what do you mean?
Well, you're not the only group within your group.
Assaulting this building or the ship.
You're going to make sure that the other guys,
you know, like, all right.
Yeah.
You know, the first one, actually exactly the kind of thing I'm talking about.
When the blinders come off, and the teams,
everything's like, went from went with, you know,
CQC, whatever you want to call it, now, skydiving, diving.
Once the blinders come off, and the good, the good people
when you're alive from the teams,
will make the blinders come off.
And then that's when you start growing as a frogman.
Because it's easy, just go, yeah, okay, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
But you have to do the basic shit so well,
and never forget it.
But then open your mind up to what?
It's like shooting, like, front sight, front sight, front sight.
Then you get exposed to both eyes open.
And your front sight is blurry, because your target's clear.
Because guess what?
When you're shooting paper, front sight, front sight, front sight,
that's great.
But when you're shooting people,
you have to make sure you can shoot them.
You have to look at their hands.
You can't do that if the target's blurry.
Right.
So when you transition, I mean, that really opens you eyes.
You do years and years of front sight,
and then you start opening your eyes.
And look, because you have to.
And then it all goes away, because you're on nods,
and you've got to laser.
And then you have to transition,
because you might be noon, you might have to go
to salt this building.
I remember we were doing a shipboard movement on the,
the, the, the, the, the pure side ship that we used to use all the time.
So we were on that ship.
We were doing just nasty.
It was just a gas to see go shit all over the point.
But we were doing.
We were like moving.
We'd come up the stern of the ship,
and then just move as a big group, a big train, like a big.
And he just asked a question, you know, like,
well, what if someone's, you know,
shooting at you?
And, and everyone was kind of stumped.
Like the older guys in my cartoon were kind of, you know,
we shoot back or just some dumb answer, you know,
like, well, yeah, we shoot back, but meanwhile,
we all died because we're all in the open on a metal ship.
Yeah.
And then he taught us, you know, how to do the little bump.
And, and then I realized, oh, oh, so there's,
this isn't a, this isn't a recipe.
It's not like a recipe.
Oh, this is what you do every time.
Yeah, you can't.
No, that's, that was probably the guy that made me start thinking,
oh, there's different ways to do this.
Yeah, it made me start thinking.
Yeah, there's different ways to do this.
There's things that I need to actually think about.
And I can't just, I can't just follow the, the, the, the thing that you've been taught
one time, and that's how you do it.
It's like, no, you actually need to think.
And that was the first guy that I said that I started to realize,
there's a lot more going on than I was aware of.
Absolutely.
There's a lot more.
Oh, a lot more.
Yeah.
It's not just, I mean,
he would straight down at the range and shoot head plates,
50 yards like on timer, you know, with his pistol.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
So that's an awesome LPO to have for your first time around damn.
Year old running mate.
Told me a story.
You guys were on a bus somewhere on like liberty,
and some guy was running as mouth, some freak guy was running as mouth,
and making a bunch of noise.
much noise he was all drunk and whatever get crazy and all of a sudden your LPO just like put him in a choke hole and put him to
Yeah, I was like hey, go buddy. Just get a little nap in there. You be all set and what's crazy about that is no one knew what a choke hold
No one knew what a sleeper hold was really he did yeah, and he's like new how to do it
Yeah, and then I put people to sleep and then does it yeah, he's a bass man. Yeah still is he's a great guy
Yeah, freaking awesome anything else that he so what was that first a putton like did you guys is an epitune
The war kicked off while you're in that plundit yeah, so
August first the August second of 1990
Saddam invaded Kuwait and everything blah blah
So they sent puttons from the strand even though they had forward deployed puttons which you guys were past no
Yeah, and so we're on the ark button we didn't leave till April and that like officially didn't end
But everything was done by the time we get there. We didn't we didn't do anything really
You know, the only like real thing I did on that putton was like a
Ship boarding now the
Big 53 helicopters one went down pulled off the ship killed everybody and we we dove on the bodies and pulled it up
But I was with that guy and you know, he was like yeah, yeah, here's how we'll do it totally cool
But that was it we didn't get any gunfire to nothing
Which is unfortunate like
Fuck yeah, so we're on a ship most of the time and
And at least we got off when we did training and summer time deployment if you left in April
Yeah, so it was of it was a 1000 degrees. Oh, yeah, it was terrible and then you know
You can't eat enough and all you did was just like flip weights and
And then wait to get back and then so you get back from that puny
You get your own to write in your next poll today. Yeah, but I got a story about that first one. Oh
I'll work up
Talk about like
Attitude adjustments and stuff
Uh, I kind of fucked up some infraction somewhere. I wasn't late. I just
I didn't have something ready. I don't know what it was but my chief at the time
He's like oh yeah, okay, you fucked up and like oh right, it's chief. I didn't really know I fucked up
I'm okay
So it's like 1600, you know, I don't know if it was Friday. No it was a weekday
And he goes up to the grinder with me and like what's he gonna do like punch me because that
The teams that's kind of like a you know still a thing you know I wouldn't go crying to HR or whatever that is
We don't have that it's just like
Fucking figured out hit each other and be done with it and go back to work
So he's got this bag big
Construction garbage bag, you know
And it's filled with a tangled up flutterboard line. Oh Jesus so if the other those you don't know a flutterboard line is this
Without getting into the whole hydrographic reconnaissance thing
It's parachute cord, you know wine and it's 500 yards worth and it's tangled up like a motherfucker
He goes I want this in the morning
Back on the flutterboard
Jesus, which is like a big fishing reel. Yeah, it's gigantic boards. Yeah, that big
It's bigger than like a gigantic pizza that you ordered. Yeah, that's the diameter. Yeah, whatever that is
I don't know
So I go well this is perfect man
I'll just you know flake it out like a flush fish in line and splite cut it and splice it and as he's walking
I go I'll know if you cut it and splice it like fuck
So you know I did that for a few minutes and realized man, it's gonna take all fucking night
So I went to the country store and I got like a six pack of Budweiser
I actually got like a 12 pack
And I'm sitting there and about five o'clock in the morning. I finished it. Yeah, and I had I I shined the flutterboard
And I put it all and I put it on the chief's desk
And I sat in the in the tuned space, you know with a couple of beers and I kind of like passed out
About six o'clock six fifteen the chief comes in and he's like hey, I'm like oh
He goes
Smacking up and I go you bet
All set chief he's like Roger that good to go good to go we got shit to do let's go
PT Roger
Yeah, I
Good lesson learned that yeah, I don't take all some 550 corda like when it comes off the spool
The car board one one one one more disintegrate whoever ever made that thing is committed a war crime
Just awful
Check so you come back from that deployment after being at sea and
And now you roll into your second pull-to
Yep, did you get any schools when you came back? No, they're just like they were already halfway through the workup
So it was just like I did all the stuff, but I didn't have any time to do anything
Oh, that's right because the arc Patuens were off cycle or off cycle so you're gonna get tossed into some and you were lucky
Then you got tossed into back to the end that was already in their workup. Yeah, yeah
Good to know
Wasn't much going on back then like 92
33 something went in 92 came back 90 to you deployed to the PI with that pull-to
Or you'll put a go on go on and just started so that's where you deployed to yeah
It was like nothing there. I know
Matter of fact it was right it was right in the middle we
We they were just exiting
So we couldn't actually deploy there so we went to Guam
But there was nothing in Guam like it was
Because my first deployment was to Guam and we were like the first guys to go to Guam
100% like oh you are going to Guam and the guys that had deployed to the PI before
We're just moping around the bear
So
Like I said I was stationed there so yeah, whatever
Hey then was it was the workup standard workup yeah bunch of freaking humpin around the desert yeah like the
Forward leading edge of battle
We had some good guys and trade trading that
Understood more about war than I did that's for danger. Yeah, but it was you know there was not much to
Reflect back on for a lot of guys a guys had to if the guys were dealing with the Vietnam guys and now
Well my first pretend my LPO they were talking about he was in Grenada
Yeah, that's right with damn that with team six and then
My second pretend the chief was in grenade a two with team sex so I had some redundancy in that like warning
But some of it was like oh, I don't know in it crazy though, and that's like
Because I had my platoon commander my second platoon was also in Grenada
Yeah, and every one was you know that was sort of the the and actually I had my LPO in my second platoon was in the first go for and actually did
Yeah gotten some fire fights and
Lc
Yeah, and so so
Those guys it was like they knew the unknown to us, you know, and
That was that's crazy
That there was that little combat experience and the teams back then in the home military
Well, you know the eighties
Yeah, no, that's a lot of sounds and now you go to a seal-patoon every single literally every single guy unless you are a brand new guy every single guy's been
On a combat deployment or seven
You're right, you know or 50 yeah or whatever. Yeah, they're just there's tons of them that are numb to it
You're like we're gonna do this deployment now. That's like we're gonna go somewhere with there's nothing going on
They're like yeah
Because we always used to have a saying like
If you're in a deployment and you're totally at war, that's great
But if you're in a deployment we're just drinking beer and working out and doing exercises
Drink beer workout do exercises do that for the boys who can't do that because guess what it's gonna come full for a circle it always does
You know, but
We're fortunate we we had a
I'm just fortunate like the timeframe I was born totally I mean from
I know everything that happened in the 80s in the war rolled and I went in the service and we still old school and then
Yeah, the y2k
Actually, let's let's you know, I learned about the industrial revolution in school
We really get a fuck the
Technology revolution cell phones computer. I mean it's yeah, it's changed the world
Not just the teams that everyday life yeah, and I mean that was weird too because we got to see
And I know what do you remember? I mean we got to the team there was no email
Oh, I mean there was no email. There's no computers. There's no email so
Copy machines. Yeah, we were all the same so my first deployment my first deployment my pulltune commander and the assistant to two commander had each had
Computer and like no one knew what they were doing
It's like cool
That's weren't even you're less they weren't even doing anything on it right it was just
No, there was no use for him whatsoever and then you know you fast forward. I remember
Microsoft word or wasn't even Microsoft it was like some other word processing program and then people started doing what you're talking about yeah
Printigure list. Oh, I had
Or any execute you
Drive
No, all that stuff. I thought I was
But here's the funny thing about that right like when I went into training
Like after my seventh pulltune
They're like oh
Yeah, you're gonna be the old people with this puttune over at team five
I'm fast for no a bit but
No, no, no, you've done enough you're going to the training like fuck
So then it became trade at and I was like plank going over there. Yeah, so I had it put all the way on warfare stuff
On PowerPoint
You know and didn't like do it right, you know professional and I just bad
I never had one minute of formal computer training
Then they're never gave me any I never asked I just I didn't have to turn on the PC like I had no idea
I'm like
Oh inside and then I
Had to I taught myself how to do it and power point. Okay, can you put power point on this?
The guy comes over and does it and I'm like
I asked a few questions and figured it out what are you gonna do? You gotta figure it out
Yeah, it's like fucking terrible
I don't know a lot of you know past midnight starting at zero six just going
You know and I could I could
Get up go to work
Do the two miles swim go run six miles
Whatever the fucking PT was
Throw my body on run through the house 800 times and go drink a thousand beers and go to bed at midnight sleep four hours and I'd be good to go
Eight hour day on the computer I can barely make it home in a month
Kills me
Terrible I don't know how these one of these fuckers who've sitting cubicles like blow the brains out
After like 10 years, you know the business suit and they're all like overweight and high blood brush
You're like
I totally can see it. That's no way for a human being you you have to get out of the cubicle man. Oh my god. I'm like headbutton
The mirror that was yeah, being the teams where you're at a minimum you worked out in the morning
And at lunchtime you're gonna go like for a run on the beach or you're gonna go do your jitsu or you're gonna go freaking do rope climbs or
Something at lunch and
And that's just the way yeah like think about the fact that when you go when you're in the teams
You you work out every day every day like that's just awesome right and that's your not working out
You're doing everything we do in the teams is working out. Yeah. Yeah, so like okay
Well, I'm not gonna pee too. Oh, you're not gonna fucking pee. I'm climbing the ships all day
You know if that ain't working out. I don't know what the fuck is you know
Yeah, yeah, if you're in one of those jobs where you are staring at a computer all day long or you're sitting inside all time
You got to you got to get up and move. I absolutely so back to your second pull tune or going what are we forward to your second
Second pull tune
Was there any major
Leadership lessons that you learned in your second pollute and I didn't really ask you that question about your first pull tune when you because I imagined your LPO
Must have left such like it not like a hey here's four points on how to lead, but you just watch that guy
I just yeah, that's any lady. That's well the cat you're talking about
I don't know how he was like your OIC yeah, we know what we're talking about
He's like just do what that guy does do I and you're in your all set
I spent my whole career trying to emulate that guy. Yeah, everything about him and I did a crappy job
But I did the best I could do you know, but my second puttune I
Don't know I
We didn't like there was no major like conflicts not even close to
We did some exercise. We had a good time
Tiling Australia got in a lot of like barfates and
You know, I mean we didn't kind of went by
Yeah, and I had a lot of fun. Yeah, and learn I learned I don't know I
Improved on my
My shooting skills in your second puttune in my second tune not a ton but a little bit
And I'll get more into that as we go along, but
It was all right doing a puttune is that period of time period of puttunes
Which I did one deployment to Guam in that time period but you could see what was happening and what was happening was
It was a pretty cookie cutter thing like you're gonna do work up you're gonna go on to Guam
You're gonna do some exercises you're gonna come home and you're gonna do that again
That's actually why I went and did a couple of arms because
It seemed like different. Yeah, they they had a little better chance it seemed of doing something real
And that's why I did a couple of arms with a couple other guys, but uh, but yeah, it seemed like it's kind of cookie cutter
Hey, you're gonna do work up you're gonna do and you're learning stuff you're getting better at it, but
That's about it. That is exactly about it and now that I look back at it
Some of the people who were in charge of me
You know, what are they or OIC's, LPO's of cheese
It's hindsight's 2020, but they didn't really do many favors. They didn't have a lot of forward thinking
And I hate to say it, but some of them like wow, let's just get through this deployment and like get through it
This is like my whole life like
I don't care if I ever go home, you know, this is what I do this is our profession, you know, and
And I would hold some ammon animosity towards on that piss me off basically did it seem to you
Like it seemed to me well as it was just from what you just said
I think that there were some guys in the teams at that time period
That were not thinking at all that we were going to war
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They just want to do this so they could punch that ticket to make rank. Yeah, but they were they were not thinking
Hey, there's a war on the horizon
Okay, we need to be ready for combat. We need to improve our skills
There was definitely guys in the teams in the nineties that were
Just
You know, there were some great guys too, obviously, but there was plenty of guys that were hey
Yep, we're gonna go on this deployment. This is what I have to do hey stay out of trouble. Right?
Yeah, are we gonna set up any extra training? No, no, no, we'll just train it when we don't have to train we won't
It was like well, yeah
Because if you don't make us train we're gonna go train out in the bars
We're getting big this fight and brick chairs where people had and getting trouble
Which I don't know why he getting trouble. I still think like oh, yeah, okay
Oh, Barpla. Yeah, don't do it again. I never got anybody trouble for that like that would be like yeah cool
Don't don't don't be disrespectful to cops
But you know come on
You look lock guys up on an island for six months. Yeah, and then go oh
You know go home and you know
What no, we're not we're not jobs. That's what
Taxpayers pay us for to be wild and crazy so when all that
No, happens we're like right at all
That's what that's what we do
So that so that pollton you do you do it's cookie cutter
And then your next book your next pollton after that where you the LPO next pollton after that you did another pollton
Well the second pollton I gave up the machine gun
And we did that one pollton and then I became a point man. Okay
That's what kind of what I wanted like that kind of takes the blinder's off
And I became a point man
Was either best point man? No was either best at anything in the teams? No ever in the history of ever nothing
But I was decent point man. I'd say it was average and
And
I
Did that the next five potentials unless I was in a leadership position
Mm-hmm. Oh, I did my third pollton was a point man
Wait your second pollton was point man or second two okay, so you gave up machine gun after your first pollton and now your second pollton point man
Third pollton point man, yep, which means you're getting really good at land nav
And we didn't have GPS and your pace count is on
That 7,000 yards in my head not a like counter nothing just yeah, Roger
You know and I got real good. That was pretty good at land nav anyway
But when did you go to sniper school my third put them so in your third pollton work up you go to sniper school
Which sniper school was it an NSW sniper at the time? Yeah, I must have been in one of the early ones
Yeah, it was not not the earliest one so it was squirt away. It was awesome, man
We did like a couple days of classes and then we went up to Klinga, California and
That's one of my shooting my long gun shooting just became insane. Oh, yeah, first. So all right, you know sniper school
You know where's my cool sniper weapons now?
Iron site M14
For like two weeks straight at a thousand inches
So after a while
This is your group size of a quarter 20 rounds. This is your group and then you start shooting for distance calling wind
Still with iron sights iron sights. I'm saying finally they break you into the scope
When they start teaching how to you know mills
How to range targets. We didn't have the laser range find this
So when you finally get all that stuff. I mean
You're such a good shooter
I got out of sniper school and my platoon. We did a pistol shoot me and my shooting buddy
You know Z they're not Z, but that's his initial ZJ
We smoked everybody
Just because we could shoot and they just got back from like Rogers like yeah, yeah, but and that really really
Like I became a really good long-unch you like awesome
Yeah, I've been shooting archery and
Man the laser range finder they're freaking crazy. Oh my god. They're the best they can take in everything. They're crazy
Yeah, I mean I bought one I'll take all I'm just gonna buy one
They're guy like he's like I'm like which one's the best one that that's one and I was like okay cool. It's compensating for angle and just real quick
I was two weeks ago two and a half weeks ago
I was an arrow range officer they call it, but it's a range safety officer at the Wyoming
Right rifle tactical championship. Yep Wyoming
Some of these range finders these guys that are like
Incredible and a shout out to them guys
There are some of the best shooters I've ever seen in my life like in the world
Good competition. It's called the Wyoming
WRTC Wyoming rifle tactical championship or
or WTRC I can't remember excuse me if I fuck it up. That's just the way I am
But it's also a fundraiser for special operations wounded warriors
Some of the best people in the planet man
Awesome, but some of the girls like holy fuck
You know but I had this back in the day that has saved me like I don't know
700 hours of horseshit in my life, you know, but yeah
Time but yeah, I became a really good shot this range friend or I have as a stabilizer on it too
Well, because it's like you're not like shaking and the only thing it doesn't do is like pull the
Trigger give you a blow job and shoot the gun for you. I mean, it's it's like crazy
Yeah, so you search so that's when you went to sniper school and you did that that sniper school was the
NSW with the stocking in all that yeah, yeah, I was hot. It wasn't easy
Wasn't easy at all how many people graduated that school? I
Can't remember there was I
Wasn't like the like the talk cat, but I think we had a
Maybe 15 man NSW came out of the gate hardcore on that school. Yeah, yeah, they did like that NSW sniper school
It's legit freaking legit. Yeah, it's not easy. Yeah, but I like I loved it. I mean, I thought it was awesome
So then you go on to point with that where'd you go? It's another quantum deployment yeah, it was there's another
Insignificant not that it wasn't great and everything but it was no yeah, yeah, I mean
That's what people have to understand and the 90s it was like you're going on deployment
We're on standby for whatever praying every day that a major theater war would break out
Yeah, I mean just hoping but the one thing we did do is we
I'm sorry I got a backtrack one putton. We were in Australia working with the SDS and
Shoot in the shit and
We were we were doing some training or doing some shooting
Our guys were doing really really well like shooting wise and
Course with those cats who are awesome like the best guys out of you know just like a bunch of special forces around the world
That's guys ever like oh yeah, you guys man you're shooting a shit out of it mate
And he goes well, it's easy for you and I'm like the fuck you talking about
You guys grow up playing freaking cowboys and army and and I'm like I never really thought of it
He goes you know back to them like we don't have guns here
They like don't have guns unless you got a special permit to hunt or you're joining the military or the cops
We don't grow up doing that
You know I'm like never thought of it, you know that Christ be begun wars when your kids and God
You know just throwing rocks. Yeah, that's have a rock fight. What?
You know so
Yeah, you don't think too much about the fact that
Many of the people that come into the teams or into in the military they grew up with a rifle
Or yeah, it's comfortable around God. Yeah, I mean I don't see any reason to be afraid of a gun
No, unless you're an idiot
Yeah, then you should be afraid of it. Yeah, because you're too yourself. Right, but that and then my third patoon
We like said we didn't
When we see he's did some stop and yeah, just you know like but people don't realize and then years when there was no wars going on
We did some like ridiculous training stuff. Yeah, okay
We're gonna do like this three miles swim and then put your gear on and hump you know walk like
I don't know here to Saskatchewan and then
And then you got a five minute break and then you got a shoot like 17 rounds and two seconds and
Like really
I mean I was skinny. Do you want me to be
You know like five miles swim like 10 mile run and then two miles swim like
Dude like it takes all day
Doing the monster mash is fried in I mean they were fun. Yeah, they were fun
But yeah, and that's the other thing is I have occasionally people ask me they say something along the lines of
I was in the Marine Corps. I was in the army. I was in the navy during the 90s and didn't do anything
And I feel like I didn't do a good job serving my country. No, is that look man? You served you country you did what your country needed you to do and when it was
1994 or
1996 and you were in the sealed teams and the navy needed you to deploy to wherever and
Go do an exercise with some country like that's what you did and and we trained and we did
We did establish and maintain standard operating procedures. So all these little things that we do you know like
They came out they they they somebody had to carry the thread of
Being able to do this stuff all right for during these time periods and that's what that's what we were doing
You know make making sure that this thread
Making sure that the knowledge at least at a minimum level stayed in place and a lot of it is not even the tactics and stop it's the
I don't know and it still teams I think
The world the word like phrase old school
has to always be there
It has to they're like just beat you up through everything or that's not an old school thing just just that attitude like you got a
At least every day and a silver tune still true salt team whatever you're talking about someone's got to be like
Don't be a fucking pussy just do it and shut the buck up
Yeah, because if it ain't like that in the most exclusive man's club ever
Then then what what do you got you got you got nothing? Yeah, there's definitely
You definitely have to maintain that attitude of
Hey, we're gonna do we're gonna do we're gonna we're gonna get this done. Oh, yeah, that's what we're gonna do we're gonna get this done and it's like
Cool, man. This is gonna really suck
Yes, things that are gonna suck real bad because if you don't do it even if you're operating here in the town
Whatever you're doing
If you're not doing a gut check like a serious gut check every
Two months or so
Somers wrong it shouldn't be easy no it shouldn't it should be like fuck this is gonna suck
But then when you're doing it it sucks so bad. It's fun because you what your chums
You're like yeah, whatever everything's good no one no one ever says anything about it you just like
Because you go because you think about some of these things that you do you get in you jump
You jump into the ocean with a zodiac
And then you get in the zodiac and you rig it and it's freezing and you're in a wetsuit
That's cold and now you drive from over the horizon so it's 15 or 20 miles of driving in a zodiac against the swell against the swells you're getting beat up
Your ass is chafed
Yeah, the guy next to you is puking and and what you're doing is you're getting to a harbor somewhere
So you can then
Put on your do the real or take your dive rig out of a kit bag
Yeah, do you like a cursory check on your dive rig to see if it got damaged on the jump and then you put that thing on
You're freaking it's all awkward and huge and and then you roll into the water and then you're underwater for three and a half hours
Next to some idiot who doesn't know where he is and you're freezing
When you get into water you're freezing you're hoping that you you're actually happy when you get in the water because then you know you're gonna warm up the light two minutes because you're gonna be kicking
And then you get done with that you come back out
You're got you turn on a fire our strobe or an IR our strobe
Sometimes a white strobe because no one's out there note there's no enemy gonna see you because you're in the middle of the ocean
Yeah, then you get picked up
You climb back in your totally exhausted you have one of those collapsible canteen like the two-quarter team is in the bottom of your kit bag
Pull that thing out you drink some of that. I pull it out. I got punctured
Yeah, I got punctured
So I'm just like I just go
I got nothing and then you got to drive another 15 miles back over the horizon
Yeah, and and and about you have about
Seven miles left the sun starts coming up
Yeah
Then you get there and then you get loaded into some some LCU
That was a VW out there
So that's the kind of that yeah, like that's just that just socks, man
Yeah, yeah, you used to it. Yeah, I don't know
All right, so that's your so your third puttune your fourth puttune what about your fifth puttune my fourth not my fourth puttune
I was LPO there you go your second class LPO I was just so I think about that for those of you don't know what that means
You're the second class pedi officer
LPO's are usually
supposed to be first classes and now everyone in a puttune is like a first class right back in those days
Man there was E3Z4's E5's and then you'd have an LPO
but you were the LPO as an E5. Yep. How was that?
I loved it, you know
my cheap was a senior cheat
and
God rest his soul my gehankel died
two years back
but uh
He was one of the talk about nice guy super nice guy. He was like so much fun. Yeah that Texas draw like
so uh
What do they go out of do it is shit Tony? I want to he's just funny, you know?
But we had a great puttune we uh
Again, we didn't we didn't really do anything no
Made no water like being like actually in charge. I loved it. I loved it. I loved it. I
had a pretty good OIC and a OIC and
We worked together we didn't I wasn't I'm like hey this is
how I think we should do it but you know let me know
and there's a couple E6's in the puttune too
They were newer guys so they didn't oh so you were the E5 LPO
ranking
Bossing around whatever in charge of guys that were senior to you on paper because they'd come
as soon as I'm like that and they'll be deal though. No big deal team guys team guys we figured out but once again we
We did a lot of drink in and fighting and
didn't you knock out one of your guys or something? Yeah
Yeah, that's just that's just stopped that happened when I puttune I mean
I got yelled at by the exo and I'm like yeah whatever like I don't you know
He was like don't do that and I'm like okay
But we didn't we're not on town the cops didn't get involved or anything we just kind of like whatever
swept on the table
That was like in the office like I'll do it again right now and he's like no no no no no
I don't care but you know it was all right then I will have team one after that not because I had to
But I transferred to silt team five after that and
At that time silt team five seemed like a
Oh it seemed like it had a
little less stringent oh my god
It was the wild west it was it was 300 feet down the street and it was like
Going you know going to the wild west and I'll say this about team five man at that time in the 90s
They were full of characters I mean fucking characters
Yeah, I
Show up recorders the first morning. I mean my star came here's my haircut my you could shave in my jungle boots, you know
It's team one and because that's the right team one was yep
The quarters is like 720. I'm standing there. I mean only guy on the grinder and it's like 716
And then the back gate opens like coming out of the Drew carry show back in the 80s like
Guys run skateboards nobody's wearing a uniform on him give a fuck
And they're like hey, what's going on yeah, blah, blah, blah, what do we do repeat to you?
I don't know who cares just go run and I don't know I'll hit the gem
Like what the fuck is going on here?
Everything was loose everybody was wicked cool
So I'm like but then when I started working with everybody
The square away nest was there and the training department in the patoon's they just
Proved that you don't need to be like
So uniform and standards me
That and still be good operator. I mean those guys were the best I love the being at silting five I love being at all my teams, but
You know that was that was fun. Yeah, there was a bunch of guys that migrated from team one down to
Oh absolutely
So I got an up a tune there and it was another arg
So this was my fifth patoon and I did art
But we had a great and did they make you the opio?
Oh no, no, I did three more patoons not being the opio after
Yeah, yeah, that's kind of an interesting deal as you kind of knew how to run shit
still any five yeah
So we did the arg and and
We uh we went overseas
again we did like
Some watch
and quate they still had that thing where guys are doing ISR or whatever but nothing major and we didn't do anything
But uh
It sucked like I was on another hard and I was like man. This is this is fucked up. I'm like I'm getting
I had just re-enlisted
I went over like 10 years so I'm like okay. I'm committed for 20 now, you know
You know you can only work out so much and you're only drink so much you know
It's getting stagnant
But when I came back
they had this
That the cap the command of advancement
Oh yeah
So there's 52 e5s at
SIL team five
And what they'll do is they'll just instead of taking a test they'll just
Make you any six and you get paid right away. It was a big it's kind of a big thing
So out of 52 e5s I was ranked number one
So I got the cap
So when TD was a CO I walked in there and we were talking and I was doing me in diamond
God bless my brother diamond he died last year
And I go
Fuck you you give it the diamond he's got a wife and kid I'll get a next year or I won't ever get it
So diamond got it and I was like yeah and he bought the bill so what's the difference
So it was all good to go but I was like I don't care about rank. I never did
So I did that and you know I thought it was cool. That is that's awesome. What uh
Did you get cap the next year? Yes, sir. I did they used to tell me that I got caped
My whole career because I did because I got capped it because I I got capped to E5 and then I got capped to answer
Yeah purpose right because you went in the program. Yeah, but that that our opportunity
We had a grape tune like one two
Three four of those guys are not with us anymore
And not one of them is from a combat thing
You know natural causebees are self-inputed
You know
But it was a good it was a great tune. We had a lot of fun. We had a lot of terrible times, but
You have terrible times but they're fun when you're fun people that just are having fun so that platoon
My opio I don't know if you're still in
pH. I don't know he was awesome. He he was great
My I had two chiefs in that tune
One like gave up or got fired or something and all this time
I had chiefs said gave me some good advice
Like my third platoon J. H was the chief and he was in buzz with me. He was a higher rank
So he had kind of a tough go at it when he got to the teams
But he turned out to be one of my best platoon chiefs
He was smart or secular you know him. He was cool too. You know just he didn't
Offer me a lot of advice tactically because we kind of grew up at the same time so was you know we're both
Same level but he was good with the navy like he told me this and that taught me shit that I forgot but it was good to know you know
But a lot of the examples I used as a platoon chief that I drew on
We're mostly bad
I'd have to say
You know 51% of them were whatnot to do and
You were looking at him at the time saying that that's not a good move or were you looking at it or did you figure out later that chief?
Wasn't doing a good thing. I remember doing one thing. We're doing this crazy ship boring thing and I'm like yeah, let's do it again
I can you know we're not there yet. We're not good at it
And my chiefs like well, yeah, the confident guys are gonna say that to me
What the fuck what now all of a sudden there's two groups like the confident and the non-cut
We're fucking frogman what do you mean non-confident what is that?
Like yeah, I'm not that way when I look at a fucking computer or something but
Like in the teams who's who's not confident?
Yeah, that is a serious like okay. I'm never gonna say that ever in the history of ever
Like ever
So then so then what point did you go into trading?
Oh, I still got a couple tunes to go over here damn bro
Yeah, so your fifth-platoon was the art cartoon. Yeah, you step down from out where you you will not the op-pl right
So now you do your six-platoon yep and what are you doing in the sixth-platoon point man again point man a rep
Point man a rep yep
And yeah, that was a speck-ops deployment to go on yeah
Hammered it now get to work out to get your work up done
Yep
Land warfare CQC yep long-humps in the desert yeah
Oh, arey oh yeah big time
By then I knew nylon so well like it was like yeah, okay. Yeah, I'm the point man. I'm like yeah
This is ridiculous you're doing it with your eyes close. I'm like hey, you know what chief
Why don't you just let me carry the machine gun?
He's like why? Because what the machine gun would be the point man. Let's mix it up
He's like oh dude cool
You know the guys like that
Well, that was another un-of-en-pull year and a half two years gone. What did you make so then what about your seventh-platoon
Well, I made E6 and my sixth-platoon
Damn so I was an E6 and my seventh-platoon, but I wasn't the op-pl again
I was the ordinance rep I went back to ordinance rep point man
You just keep rolling. Yeah, you just keep rolling. You did keep rolling. Yeah, and now after that one another
That was our problem though. We actually oh yeah, but yeah, it was like 30 days on the ship
Like Korea or something terrible
I remember that because I watched the subway series on the ship back there when the mats were plenty and
Like right
I think we ended in 2000 maybe 99 2000 so you're a first class at this point. Yeah, and then you get sent to trade it
I get sent to training cell it train cell a team fire and after like a couple of months you did your platoon LPO and then you did four more deployments
Yeah
Before I was it she and then you then you got sent to training cell. Yep, and then they take training cell and they group it all together and to trade that right
So I did like a year and trade training cell at five okay, and then when I got orders to trade at
Those were three years and my way man. I already did a year in training like how we don't get a shit like fuck
So we stood up trade at and
I was the LPO of Land Warp there
They a whole time I was there and
During that I did get another school though. I went to New Zealand to the tracking course. Oh damn
So I learned that attract humans over there. It was it was a awesome like not easy course
Met a lot of really good cats from around the world and had a lot of fun
When did how long did you been at trade out when September 11 happened? I'm
I'm not sure maybe six months six months and then what would you just freak out? No, I went to New Zealand
Everybody else went to Afghanistan. I went to New Zealand
As I had how long was that course seven weeks
So you get done with that and now you're freaking out. Well, it costs I am
So I come back from that and
All right, one of my going
Okay, you're gonna go
You're gonna go and then
Like I didn't I just kept working at nylon working work and working and now when I rack kicked off
One of my own mass chiefs like I need a guy so he took me and set me overseas and that's when you were there
All right
This is when yeah, you relieved us right so we should we did like a little turnover
What I was working with poles yeah, but we were working with the poles so
Right, yeah, so you came into kind of take over the liaison
Right, that's what it was
And then
Which was a good job. Oh, it was great
You must have been stoked so I was I wasn't bad dad. I wasn't all aside
I was in Mosul I was back and forth to Bahrain. I really I was like the in the other guy
If you wanted something done I
Mean I was walking through these foreign airports with
Dumpel bags full of machine guns and just
Going to like the brits or whatever country had a plane
I mean, they're like we can't do that my hair here here is a bottle of scotch
I mean that's how you got shit done and then all of a sudden I show up in like Bosra
And like okay, I got to do this for a while and then I'd be like all right
I'm gonna go to Mosul get a plate there from
Priving people with stopping
No orders and you know you think it's like we get your orders and you wait for your point now
It was like they just got to fend for yourself and I loved it
It was awesome
Then you did that full and I made cheap on that deployment that's when you made cheap
Yeah, I squeaked under the thing I had like 19 years and oh
Day or 18 and a half whatever
And then when when did you find out you were gonna go to team three?
All right after I made cheap
Yep
Because the guy we were talking about called me this office you guys I got you to an at team three. I might you know that
Perfect where you ever worried you weren't gonna make cheap and you'd get no
No, you figured it would work out. Yeah, I would always work out
I would make it work out
I'd strangle someone before I didn't you know it would just it would just work out bodies would disappear
Whatever, I don't care
Now I take this and I'd be like all right here's what's gonna happen. You know your signature is gonna be on there
You're blood, you know, it's one of the other it's gonna fucking happen and that's it
Not I've been not been doing this my whole life just like okay
You're gonna sit over the corner like you know now not gonna do it
And then so then you showed up a team three I show up a team three and there is task unit bruiser
We talked about that on the last one, but we got to reiterate that was so funny
Like who's this will ink guy and I'm like who?
Oh, Jocco they're like oh
It says John will link will I'm like
Now I don't really know I'm kind of know I'm walking away like oh
Don't worry we're good to go
We're all set we're all set champ
Like not but you know the officers like well, what's he like I'm like
He's good to go that's all you need to know just stand the fuck by
Don't have any fucking me I don't care I didn't know you my whole life
My yeah, whatever I go don't have any like loose ends
And they're just like you know officers
I'm like what do you mean
I mean no fucking loose ends because he's gonna you know
He's like a shock in the water like a smell buddy. He'll go
Oh
Really can't show up at a proper uniform
And they're just like really what is he like a
Uniform or Nazi or whatever you know and like no he's just like do it right
I go I go here's here's an idea
If you do say hey, what do you think about this? Jocco. He'd look at you ago
Well, I thought about like doing it like good
Not like what you're saying that's just junk and they're like oh
Yeah, then you meet everybody yeah, yeah, yeah, that was that was good. That was funny. Yeah, that was a
Good time you could tell almost immediately
Like that we were gonna have a good time. Oh, yeah, I know I know everyone was kind of there
Everyone was kind of in the game and
Yeah, you could tell pretty quick we're gonna have a good time and the very first thing we did was land warfare
Which is as it should be there's a little bit of luck involved with training to get to do first
But you know we got lucky you might find or someone moved the freaking things on the boards over a trade at to make us have land warfare first
But we had land warfare first
You know there's a lot of guys teen guys probably listening to podcast away we should shit here
Yeah
And I got a thing that they're like yeah, we did this for a strong member if we did that for us
Like I remember everything like everything
But not everything you know what I mean yeah, like if you say
Like
Like shum that was down there for a wrote a wrote a book
He's got a memory because I'm like
How did you remember that? He's like I used to write stuff down now I had a wheelbook just like you did
And I would write stuff down I go back. I still have them. This they make no sense
It says I got a grid coordinates then I got to like align through it and it says other fucking grid and then roll over next day
Get
Get guns like what yeah
What would you have to write that down minor like that too? I have from when we were in Ramadi
I have three like
I forget what size they are but maybe
Maybe eight by six or something they fit in your cargo pocket right and I carried it all the time
And so I've got all these little boxes with words next to them and I can kind of remember what someone one thing that's cool is
When I would sit through a mission brief I would write my notes down that I was gonna say to everyone
So I have like mission you know one thirty four and it says
You know tell them the watch you know it says watch that road
This building is a threat and don't forget to check in with this ECP
You know like just like random stuff that was super important and super emphasized the rules of engagement
Yeah, yeah, of course. I did that. I thought that was great. Yeah
But so I have these kind of like random notes and what sucks is
Life had the whole hard drive of every op that we did and it was classified secret obviously and it was classified secret for no good reason
But you know when we we had to turn it in and they took it in this destroyer whatever
But that had every op some every op every planning
I mean everything was on that and
Yeah, that's good the notebooks I have are like your notebooks. It's like some random grid coordinate some random execution checklist four lines
And I'm like and I'll rearrange this. Yeah, it's like so many they can't remember
Like all the shit, you know
I'd look at the notebooks and usually that none of them were like full
Some of like three quarters then I lost it in a pair of bag forever
So I just get another one and be like I'd write this down like and I'm thinking why am I writing this down?
Like at what point like in the middle of the night when I'm on nods and I'm in a gunfight
I'm gonna pull this notebook out go. Oh, yeah, he's no
I'm just gonna beat you up to someplace where there's nobody shoot at me and then I'll like figure it out
Yeah, yeah
That's why I would be right I wrote that the notes that I wrote down were all notes that I wrote down
So that I was gonna tell you guys yeah, yeah, like every every note I have is a note to you guys
I mean very I guess maybe there's a third of them that are notes to me that say like
Hey tell the CO blah blah blah or tell the brigade commander that you know
The guys are gonna be over you like so there's some notes like that but I don't have any notes that say
I felt
I felt good about this operation and I you know what I mean I have of course not I never any
If actually yeah, I don't have any of that I don't like like when I actually did sleep I
would like all right my gun's good. Okay. I'd lay down and I would sleep like a baby
For those hours whenever I slept so good in the war zone
Number one you're like wicked tired number two. It's simple
It's not like life you get up every day. Okay. Here's what I'm gonna do. Yeah, it's fine
I'm gonna bed well
And get up and yeah easy
No like regular life shit
Terrible
Yeah, there's there's definitely the optempo of
There's just you constantly have the next thing that you're like there's no
You never finish
On a deployment you like you don't finish the day the day is rolls into the next day into the next day
So you're just on this this amped up cycle of what are we gonna do next what's going on yeah and it
Those doesn't stop so when you when you when you have a chance to lay down you like
Yeah, yeah, it done there's a picture me and Dave Burke that still be yeah, yeah, nice reaction time
But it's me and him I'm pretty sure it's cop falcon and
You know keys the commander of salt six and I'm the commander of tasking a bruiser
And we're up on this rooftop
And we're both asleep. It's probably about 10 o'clock in the morning and
It's funny, but I was thinking like by the time I would get into the field
I'd be so tired
done
And you know and that'd be the first time where like okay cool everyone's on security
And I'm gonna go to sleep right now and it's Dave Burke and me sit on a rooftop racked out just done
And just need three hours of sleep
I remember that one deployment that one I was up on this building and I had three and one mag and I was looking to say and for some reason that little
Section was just me
We didn't have enough people for the whole building whatever so that's fine. I could crawl and meet up with the other guys
Then go downstairs. Don't be too
It's like August
And like buck. I don't have any water. I don't have any shade nothing. I have to stand the gun
So it now I realize this about
The nine in the morning so the sun goes down at like nine at night
I go okay. Yeah, I'm breaking my shit down
Kind of so this is after you've been sitting there for 14 hours. Yeah
And you have a crawl back you have zero fucking water your system. Like nothing
It's like a hundred and twenty degrees
So I'm like I break out my silver ranger
Like as I know what's going on
My lips are as white as this piece of paper like just like that chunks some like
I'm feeling off and like I
You know I'll be fine, but I
Literally got like three hours to like die
And I
So I'll say a fucking thing because I want to be a pussy, you know
But I know I got some coax or something and come to you
You know
I finally like get that like
Because my throat's like this big you know there's like nothing there's no airway
So I put my rocker. I'm where I'm actually when I was building at night, you know, and say
You know I'm like looking down and holding my field of fire, you know and I'm the chief
So I should be smarter than that but I'm like
My vision starts to narrow because I like and I'm like
I can snap out of it and I'm like that I'm good and go
I get back and after like an hour back at the camera. I'll shoot I got to drink some water
You know and I'll drag like four courts a while
And like six hours later I was pissing like blue
You know still
I don't think you can really come back from a dehydration like that, but it's all those years
Like drinking and let just conditions you so when it's you know nylon so when you get into that spot
It's not so bad like I'm not gonna die
I'm wicked close
No, seriously like you start you know feeling your
Justiness and then you just go
And it goes away for a while and it comes back because you can't out you cannot run your body
You're like you know what I mean?
Yeah, the dehydration will get you yeah
It's it's crazy how the
Man you'd see guys that you'd see guys at the desert
Training they'd go they'd go to it's up
Pretty much if we were doing when I was a trade-out if it was summer and we were doing like a
eight
six to eight click insert
By the time extraact was going down
There's a decent chance someone was going down by the real yeah and and you're talking about
Completely sober usually hydrated usually all the answer why is it that it was usually on the insert because you just coming out of the damn air conditioning
Because that's it now that I think about it was almost always on the insert well one of the things I instituted and
And if I'm wrong about this somebody correct me, but I think I was the first guy to do it
Was what we do in me action drills
I would walk the guys out I did a fucking thousands of those and
I would preplan a guy
And you kind of could tell like we're not gonna shoot back towards the canal kind of shit
But a guy who's on that right flank if it was perpendicular parallel whatever was
The point man they would just fall down
With nothing just fall down and like weigh there
Guys would be like contact right you know or they start shooting and they drag the weird guy and like
Okay, and then come back and usually they did a good job, you know
Like so what happened and well, you know we took contact this guy went down blah blah
No, you didn't
God just fell down
Well, what do you mean? I'm like well, maybe it was a heat casually and not to be a day
Kind of to be a day
Yeah, that's how you teach the lesson
But it's like
You know
So how do you differentiate maybe you get taken out by someone you don't hear the shot
Well, what are you shooting at you know it there's no real good answer
It's trying to take the blinders off. Yeah, I was gonna say that's one of those things what you're actually teaching is like you actually have to think about what's happening
Oh, absolutely even in an immediate action drill like okay, there's an immediate action drill, but you better be you better think about what's actually going on
Because the answers aren't
What's the word?
The answers aren't just a wrote memory. No, there's no answer. It's all
garbage you gotta decipher and figure out
You know the only thing that comes close to it and there's stability and we're all this hunting
Yeah, I'll count this last pass here. I killed this gigantic bull. Well me and
Two team guys
We're
There was five team guys there in Wyoming and when I when I killed my big bull
It was like the other two guys
Couldn't carry gun because they already limited out they tagged out
So we ran it just like an op and we have you know little PLL
Take off hand arm signal comes up and guys are
My chum crashes like okay, this big bull elk's going from here to here and it was so intense and
I tell this to my chums like
I mean I actually shot some guy in the war whatever you know like yawning like
Yeah, like
Hunting elk I'm like this
It's they're so like big and majestic and beautiful and like they'll kill you in a minute
And they don't care about you they're just like it's like life on steroids. It's so unbelievable
I highly recommend that if you like hunting you hunt elk because
It's they're screaming you know and then the rut and they're battling each other you can hear the times and then the big bull comes out
Bucking incredible. I'm going in September. It's unbelievable with a bow
It's I'm never I'm not a bow hunter yeah, but I don't know where you go on you go and hide
How going to Utah Utah yeah, yeah to a to a place that guy went to high school bow Hanson Utah
He's from this this this
The hunt that I'm going on I'm going with it's because that's like a
It's like the the best possible hunt like Andy Andy stump
He said that this
He's like yeah, he's like this hunt is gonna spoil you because the best possible
I love that and even he's the guy that's taking me John Dudley who's a world famous bow hunter and archer and he's like
Yeah, it this is good as it gets like this the spot where I'm going as good as it gets so
Should it's freaking awesome. It's it's so
Bad ass
You know, I went I went home back to New Hampshire because it was that was a October season back to New Hampshire hunted
I hunt with these guys up at a camp. They're just like the best everybody's like a character
Kill a lot deal dear the shoe, you know, but it's not like that
It's you know one thing well, so this guy John Dudley was asking me he's like it seems like this would be good for guys to get into
Oh my god
I'm like yeah, and for me so we just did this 3D archery challenge up in Montana and
When we're up there look it's an it's an admin thing basically like you're walking through the woods and then they go
Okay, there's the target and then you you shoot the target there anywhere between
30 and
Maybe 120 yards with a bow which is far shots but
For me I was telling him I'm like you know when I was younger in the teams
We would patrol around the woods yeah, and that's what you're doing you're patroling on the wood
You're trying to be quiet and like that's a skill that and the wind yeah the wind and but like even in the desert
It's different than
Like when I was when I when we would go to Fort Lewis Washington, or we'd go to
Fort Chaffey Arkansas or like we'd go down to Panorge you ever go to one of the
Training trips to Panama so
Like patrolling through the woods patrolling through the water not Panama city Panama. Oh, yeah
Yeah jungle. Oh, so you get that that
That skill of walking quietly through the woods and looking at someone else and
Doing all hand signals and not and I was saying this to John I'm like and you're not talking no
Where would we which I know I have a pond cast which is what I do is like talk a bunch
But I actually actually don't love to talk to all people all the time. No really really
So that's someone some like J.O. with junior house who we'd walk I'm like hey what's up?
Hey, hey, well he chuckle what do you think about this you just be like
Just like turn and walk away
Then they got me like looking at me like we want to meet for
Oh, he just doesn't want to talk to you. So what don't get all but hurt over it
He's got like stuff on his mind like
I'm hungry
Yeah, so that's kind of cool. I'm looking forward to going out mad honnain in in September
And I'll report back with how it goes absolutely man there's a
No pressure shooting a freaking bow and arrow
at
Yeah, it's no joke. There's no real will be will be will be
30 or 40 yards away yeah, like outside of that like I I can
Loosely hit a target you know well you've been practicing like you can practice I practice but you don't want to you don't want to have a bad shot
No, but how are you?
Everything good like
Shooting your bow like 50 yards all hit all the time like you're good to go all hit yeah
Like to see oh your bad example like how can I stand next to you like a fucking tambourine?
Make you like shake because nothing you'll be like laughing and you like that man
When they're fucking screaming it's it's the coolest thing in the fucking world. I swear to God
That's awesome. Well, well, I don't know if you want to get it if you want to get a bow and start
hunting
I'm sure one thing at a time
I don't even know I'm doing after this podcast, but I go in across the street to Buffalo Wild Wings get all gonged up
So bruiser I mean you know like I said there's a million things to talk about to your bruiser
But when you got done with to you bruiser
What were your what were you're like looking back on it not looking back on it now because now you just look back
Everyone like all that was off but when you were like when we got back
Two weeks later what were you what were you when you look back at it from that closer perspective I
Was kind of lost like
It's not gonna get any better than that you know
All right, I was in the next trip. I was the
Offs Chief then I got fired. I think it fired I get fired because I made senior chief
And I was like well cool all right
And then I had to go to the senior and list the academy and I was like whatever and
You know, I went to team seven and I pretty much got fired
Which was fine. I didn't want to do that anyway and I was in ranges and
They're like we need a guy to go do the
Provincial reconstruction team
Come like okay
So I didn't have genocide and I've got a state so I went to Afghanistan
Why did this work up for like two months at camp A and then Indiana so this is a this is a mission where you'd be going with not with like a seal
Poutoon but you're going with
Some other kind of ad hoc group of people
Oh no, no, it was it was I had a seal Lieutenant commander as a seal okay and I was a seal senior chief and we're the only seals
And I had about a hundred people
From the navy the army the national guard so it was and therefore so it was at Hock
And it was it was like leadership challenge
I'm not used to working like with the regular but I am used to work with the regular Tricas every frog man has to
So really wasn't that bad
But I
Like very very minimal combat experience
I had a couple of guys like these old crusty guys who are in the South Carolina national guard
Some guys were in the Rangers they were awesome man
But they're all like cops lot of sheriff's or
Do they must have loved you oh yeah or
We're prison guards
You know in a national guard cats
They were frigging awesome you know once we got through the language barrier
Because I'm from New England you know they're all from South Carolina
They were bad ass man they were like a platoon
Those are just mine my platoon
You know and they were frigging great they two up to a guy every one of them was awesome
I had some reserve C-B's who took care of the trucks. You know I guys with no combat extra never even
Driving these trucks
You know mortars coming in they performing knifters and it was it was cool
But I did a lot of vehicle work with them you know
Media action drills
How to deal with down people you know we got some we actually got some pretty good training
You know I learned a few things I'm not afraid to admit when I learned something from you know
But we're there like a here you know and I broke off for like month month and a
Just what back to my seal buddies and got after it got a bunch of gunfights and
You know we get mortar all the time I'd be in a sandwich and rock Chinese one of seven's come in like whatever
But it was cool
What was what were you guys actually doing we'd go into
areas and
like
We wouldn't build schools we wouldn't build bridges but we facilitate it
Going there and me with the village elders
Now say we need this okay
So it's set up up proposal and we'd go back given money
You know or put it out to bid and of course that's all garbage
It's just a big like shake down all the local politicians just just just come in and take the money and they're like okay
We'll get you okay, let's see we give him $50,000 to build a bridge
All right, so the guy wins the bid his company gets the 50 grand the politician comes in and takes like 30
And then they build the bridge for the $3,000
No, they come back and ago. We don't have enough to finish. We give them the rest of money
I mean it's like
20% of the
40% I don't know what it is
Percentages all shake down money they were given to Afghanistan. It's like crazy
But you know people think in this country that every other country is like us. Yeah, no
Well, I remember that I don't know if you remember we got to remind you one of the things that
The guys were concerned about was they were like hey the
The officers in the Iraqi army are taking the unless they're they're skimming
So many years up and then it was like you talk to the Iraqi
There's a yeah, well, he's the boss
Of course he's gonna take us some of my money. Yeah, yeah, let's take the scam that's the way it goes you know and we were all thinking
Like like in America
If you heard that hey the officer is skimming money off the elicited guys is paychecks
It'd be like oh I need to be crucified right over there like well, yeah, they were like well, yeah, of course
He's taking a little that's his he's the boss. Yeah, it's not like people who go like this
They see it on the like six o'clock news with you know
Whatever shit, you know, she's up there going well today the scandal was there don't don't there's none of that
It's just whatever is just it's all wild west just do whatever you got big guns you get all the money
You know
Then you spent that that year how many like different villages did you guys go trying God like all kinds of them? Yeah
How would you get in there would you guys doing patrols in there vehicle patrols you find in?
We rarely
Used air assets we had always had air support don't at least stand by but most of the time we drew vehicles I had
Some of it between a dozen and up to like 20 vehicles and I was usually the vehicle commander
I wasn't overall and yeah, the operation yeah sometimes that was
But I took these people who never
Really been in a military vehicle that much and
We were okay survived few ambushes got blown up a few times had records with us
Refueling tankers
I mean it was crazy these were some long transit said oh yeah 100 miles some of them one way
The IED threat was was it was gigantic
It was gigantic like say we got blown up a couple times but you could tell was amateur hour
So back then like said back then
We had three big threats one was your trip wires
Or we were manual
You know and then you had
Pressure plates pressure plate it's activated yeah, so your pressure plates
So the way we count it we we counted pressure plates is you got the mine rollers
And they're like an 8,000 pound thing
They put in front of either a mat v or a whatever the other one is I had in my own bat v it was awesome
But so that you roll that in front and of course I had a driver
You know, but you can't just drive with that you have to counterbalance the it's weird you have to learn how to drive it
So that's like driving a trailer to reverse right you'd have to put eight that eight thousand pounds of pressure
Whatever it was maybe I'm wrong and it would detonate and if it does detonate it's not it's so fuck you up
But it's not gonna flip because you know explosion works goes like this
So we had that for the pressure plates for the
So you had some counter measures for the IEDs yeah
And you ended up hitting just a couple yeah, just couple yeah
But around us guys had a lot yeah
We had to respond and we got pretty good at like going out not really being a
QRF but going out and providing support and I would fan out and I'd walk up and talk to those in charge
Yeah, what can we do you know but
I've got a steam was kind of cool because I really love the terrain
Big mountains like
thousand you know eight that nine thousand feet up you know it was pretty cool. It was actually beautiful over there
Yeah, could have ski frigging
lodges and you know it's that's Northeastern
Afghanistan. I West it's like desert but
It was cool and then I came back from that and I put my papers in a retired and I was just like went back to Nio one
run the boys
But I basically had a great crew
Maybe pipe hit and guys they just knew what to do
So I kind of like get up in the morning and have my coffee
They hit the gym for a bit maybe go for a run and then
Jumping my side by side with my 12 gauge and go shoot rattlesnakes
An eight launch and then do that some more go up to the range look around and everything good yep
But come back to the camp like watch hockey and drink beer on night. I'm pretty good
That was like I got to get out I got every tire
That one that's pretty much it you know
Terrible get out and it's just
I mean I did some contract work for wall that dried up and went back to land you know landscaping and
Construction type work and that sucks, but it was cool
What are you gonna now you're retired now is that right? Oh?
Yeah, I mean like retired like
Yeah
You're not going to work every day, right? No no. I guess that's what I mean by retired not not this summer not yet so
I'm just kind of like BTF around
Yeah, it's actually got a cool
Hey, I got some questions for you. Yes, uh and this is the great first question
Very serious in retrospect
What's the dumbest reason you've ever gotten into a bar fight yeah?
Probably be easier to figure out the smartest reason you ever gotten to a bar fight. Well I'd have to say
Farie's rock one night like watching Monday no football
And the Patriots were losing or something and someone said
Oh, you know what that's that's cool because you know
I don't have them in my fantasy flick the only and I just went fucking whack and I fucking smack the guy
I don't know like it's just terrible like I just I was past and drunken. I don't you know that was pretty dumb
But there you go sounds like a good one in 20 plus years in the teams what situation challenged your leadership the most and how did you work through it?
Um
I'd probably have to say when
When Mark Lee got killed I'd have to honestly yeah, of course and now
I mean that's kind of a weird question and I'll get to that but
I I had to like shove that fucking shit deep down and
Not like
Show it and make sure that it was there for the rest of the guys because the milks on the floor
Obviously you gotta find out why it happened. Wow, so we don't do it again. What the fuck you know
Sometimes there is no answer but I had to push that shit way down and
Focus on the tasks that I am whatever they were the day. I couldn't just go a
Jocco and like I'm a back-as-shit. I'll see it in two days. I can't do that
So I mean I and I push it down before but that I had to really really really push it down
So
That was that was challenging
I mean other times like leadership. I had guys that get DUIs we intercepted the mail hide it from the cops
So they never got DUI
Just take care of it on your own on town and I can say that because both the guys did it for dead
So I mean I had no problem like fucking cutting through red tape
But uh that that was probably the worst
What was your favorite qualification school that you attended while in the teams?
Oh, that's uh that's easy. It's across to a sniper school in the tracking course. Yeah, that was fucking great
Yeah, yeah, really good
That must have been we're here in that when you're hunting
Yeah, man you must have just been like oh yeah, we'd be overjoyed. Oh my god. Yeah, but like tracking elk
If you've never done it
It's you don't have to go to it. Oh you look over especially if there's a little snow
There's like eight billion tracks because they're in a herd so it's not like you're like oh look at me
I can see if like 600 yards away like yeah, but there's no snow there because it was just
You when you listen to these podcasts when I had this guy
Till John strike a mile and his buddy Doug the Frenchman let turn it on
They'd be out in Lousy, Cambodia and there was trackers. There was NVA trackers with doughists
That would be common after them. They carried as part of their standard loadout. They carry pepper like dust and and
Some other
The damn coughing method. What is the coughing? Tier gas tier gas powder. They had that
So they they put that on their trail and they'd hear the dogs like the dogs become in so then they range
And then all of a sudden they'd start freaking out and then they bring up another dog skip that area
And I said I said to tilt I was like do you do you I said you must hate dogs? He was I hate him
Oh, yeah
We we would we train and out of the feed him and it's like
One way
There's several methods, but
I mean
I'm not gonna say it on here like how to defeat him
But it's so simple and it's got like nothing to do with the dog
It's like crazy
It's it works too. I as we did exercises, you know and like
I mean so I'm asking the cat like hey mate, you know
These dogs like they're good at like exercises like oh no, mate. They're real dogs. They're gonna bite yeah
Fuck
This is gonna suck I better fucking be good at it enough. You know going over my notes. Okay. What the you know
I mean yeah, they were like
Police dog who like yeah, yeah, we're gonna get you
I mean, thank God. I mean, I did it right, but like holy shit
That's one thing. It was a real world off. Like yeah, you know I got an M16 blanks. Yeah, you know because it's really not in the New Zealand that can hurt you
Like there's no poisonous snakes. There's no
New Zealand's freaking awesome. I'm man. It's freaking wonderful. The people are awesome. Yeah, that places
That's like more easy. You know, yeah, like so cool. That's one of the places I want to take you in like this
Like okay, yeah, that's one place I went to I was like
This is just awesome like I could live there. Oh in a minute in a minute I could live yeah that place is freaking amazing. Yeah
If you could go back in time and give yourself one piece of advice before joining the teams what would that be?
I don't know. I don't think nothing. I wouldn't do it any differently. I liked I could say
I would have did this but I'm glad I did stuff like as a knucklehead and had some hard knocks and
no, I don't know. I wouldn't have done anything differently because the good, the bad stuff that I went through
made me better and a good, you know, that kind of shit but yeah
That's one of those questions too. You know, there's people that ask
There's and I there's people that ask these kind of questions. They're looking for
They're looking for like a one like a one thing answer of like you know if you could tell yourself
There's another if you if you go back and tell yourself your 20 year old self what would you tell yourself like it's or
Invest in
What is it apple apple or whatever
I'll never know what's the one leadership lesson you like there's always that kind of thing or
They ask it about everything, man. I ask it about everything. What's the one book you would what's in it?
They ask the same kind of question that there is never an answer. Yeah, I mean it's like
What I figured out early on is like, okay, you know, what book about face somebody asked me that in the live podcast
And like I talk about I've been talking about about face since I started talking to
Backboard in the public. Yeah, hi, he's awesome. And so this guy at the live podcast New York
Some guys says if you could recommend one book and I'm like is anyone over the answer everyone's like about face
It was like I was not in the game right. Yeah, I was gonna ask him that question or you could easily say like remember like cracked magazine
Yeah, that was about the same
Yeah, so it's weird. I'm not trying to you know, it's like people want to hear
They want the information to be so distilled down, but it's kind of like this kind of you gotta do the work
Yeah, it's kind of like being in Gigi to be like well, what's the one move you should know in Gigi? It's like you know there actually is not one move
So asking Tony
What the one piece of advice it's like
Man like we're
What is that where do you stick to guns probably is good?
Don't don't give up when you know don't like get away from you like I don't
I want to say principles like hate that word, but
You know whatever you believe it like the teams like for me does like no
You know we know you don't do the action don't do that like
If I'm running a crew and
And
Everybody wants to make more time off and then you kind of give in and now now here's what we're fucking doing that's it
If you stick to that and
You can't blow up you know this time of bomb that already went off
So just stick to what you're doing unless it's so fucked up of course, but you know I had this
My uh my second-pulting commander the real squared away guy
But we did a hydro at
Camp Hamilton and like we went to red be it was a freaking nightmare it was freezing
The waves were huge
We go out we do it
It's fraud man shit and then we we get everything recovered
We come back we sit there in the zodiac typing up the freaking
Message with the little codes in it for how the beaches we come back we get in we draw them you know the cartabra for guys
Draw take all that information and draw the maps and blah blah blah and we and then the Marines launch
We've been we land the Marines yeah, yeah, and then the Marines weren't happy with what they did
They weren't happy with the landing so they go reload
So the next night they're like okay, we you guys gonna go do it. We're doing the whole thing again
Everything again. Yeah, so hydro recon so we go out and all of us boys were like
You know we just did the hydro you know not just change. Yeah, nothing changed and that boss that
Oh, I see he goes
That's not the point he goes he goes I remember it clear his day because I'll never forget him saying this because I use this quote in about a million times with all my guys
He goes you're right he goes you hey guys we don't have to do the hydro again
But would that be the right thing to do?
Yeah, you got and I was like get your lead lines boys. I mean that's how right you're big
It's critical is the guy in the mirror. Yeah, that's the one you got answered to not anyone else got in the mirror
Yeah, that that like I never forgot that from then on from the rest of my life
It's been like what's the actual right thing to do right now?
Yeah, what's the actual right thing to do? It's usually the one that's so fucked up in the hottest way
Yeah, it's gonna suck. Yeah, it's like everything
Well, I could do this or I could do that
No, which one's hotter? Yeah, well, then that's the one that I probably should do
You know in nine times out of ten you're gonna be right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is suck this way's easy, but this way sucks
Okay, but that's the one I have to do
But then you if not you're just like I should have did this, but I'm just all we can stupid and then you just get all mad
You end up doing that anyway, so my just doing it over with
um
As a sniper team leader prepping for deployment in your opinion one of the top five things I should drill in my guys
On two support combat operations limited range time about one range every other month
I Wouldn't be so concerned about range time I'd be concerned about environmental shooting like night time
low light
sundown son up
Communication
To any other not so much like sniper spotter like everything was this put yourself in a
And a 360 degree you know white side black side whatever
And communicate okay, you got guys all around how we doing this we got too much shit over here
Do we need to shift forces? Yeah, you don't need to range to do that. You don't need to range
You don't even need to carry weapons to do that
Yeah, you know, you obviously have to shoot yeah, but and then
Cross training all the other guys on the sniper weapon
Because sometimes
You have to take a break and you got to give somebody else who's not a sniper then you can't shoot a gun
I mean, it's easy but do more cross-training
There's no reason that
A non-sniper and a seal-potune shouldn't have a thousand rounds through whatever a weapon system we're using right now
There's no reason maybe a thousand's a little bit, but
That was a couple hundred this is no reason with that we're that busy, you know
Getting up and going to work and like running around and talking about uniform standards and but we can't I mean come on
We got all this time you have like no one shoot at you back here
So you should you maximize that time and don't get me wrong. We need time off to drink beer and be frogman, but
job is a job
What did you do to keep jacco in check?
Yeah nothing that's terrible
Ah
I know that's an important question to like someone who doesn't know you
I don't know maybe
Not like destroy everyone in the morning you get two sections sessions so like when they had to actually do something
I had to yell in their other year because I had cauliflower air fucking torqued
Yeah, I were basically hey man this guy not in our chain of command who's like working in another department
I
He's limited you don't know them, but I do
He's not you kind of got to be
Not a frogman, but I kind of got to be a little general of this guy because he's good at what he does
Just don't go in there and scare him to death because he's just gonna like fade into the the shredder room and cry
So you know maybe that but very limited
Yeah, how what you can do with this fucking guy. I don't know. I think people
Then we talked about this last time. It wasn't like I mean first of all
You and I were like if you and I looked at a target
We would come up with a so we both have a plan that was like almost the same thing
You know I
Because if this paper is the target like when I look at it
I look at it
There's nothing in my head, but that look at it
So people go oh yeah, yeah, okay, now you look at it
Like really really look at it and revision
What what this high ground here what's on top of that high ground is it trees is it how can I
Okay, I need to take this section of the map and I need to add the other five
Because we're coming from here so I'll add boom boom boom boom and this and then
Egress this way if this is my unique points and next thing you know the maps the size of this fucking room
That's how you look at it target. You know just look at go oh yeah, well I go in here
What who says you gotta go in?
There's 150 ways to do this mission, but you have to look at that target and really really look at it and then envision it in three days
You're walking up to that's I don't I think that's what we do pretty good. Yeah
I just always remember like you know some mission whether it was overseas or no matter what
I'd be like looking at it going I think it'd probably be good to do it like this and then you'd be like why did one
We do this and I like yep
Yeah, I mean yeah, there may be like
One little difference, but that's that's my new
Um
I think with BTF Tony can you share some stories about team guys that influenced you in good and bad ways during the early days and the teams
Oh, yeah, I mean, we've been talking about that the whole time. I think we'll be one of the reasons I picked that question was because it said in good and bad ways
Bad ways I just think not being
Totally totally 100% team guy. I've seen some guys who have been charging me that
You know, they just seem to at the time a little more interested and
You know
Just getting through what we were doing and not really
You know, it's like hey chief
Two weeks ago when we're doing this can I I want to bounce my notes off here as you like why don't have any notes
Mike. All right
That's terrible. That's terrible. Why don't you have any notes like
Isn't this like the the pinnacle of your fucking career because for me it was and you know
Yeah, I get it if there was no war going on but still isn't that like it's why I say some of these guys
We're champions like I almost respect
Fucking awesome cat some of them they kind of put us behind a power curve when the shit really hit the fan after nine eleven because they were just kind of going through the motions
And they didn't like before we got into the mobility world
That they didn't ever
They're like oh yeah, we either get dropped off by a Hugo on hump and or
Coming by boat like what about vehicles? Well
We don't really do that. Let me we don't do that how you gonna get from point eight of fucking be you know
And then once we started doing it it was a bunch of ketchup
It took fucking smart guys like TK there to really ram around the mobility program and do that kind of shit and
Like one of you guys think of this
I mean, yeah, I'm why didn't I think of it. I mean, I kind of did but I was only or low
Guy trying to learn the ropes, you know, and I don't think to do this any favors
I didn't think about it. I didn't think about mobility. I wasn't even in myself like oh cool one
But other guys that are that are frog man or the T1 cats were doing it. Yeah, what I what I
Like I was still trying to sort out like just yeah my wife. Yeah, be a good team guy, right, but yeah looking at it seems like
Those days there was there was
Seems like you would need to we needed as a community to look at like what could happen
One one big thing that I was looking at when I was a young team guy was I realized a long fucking time ago that
There are no terrorists really
I mean, I'm wrong about some things and if can't understand, but there are no real bad guys in the middle of fucking nowhere
There's gonna be buildings. There's gonna be it's not gonna be
Irving combat and then out in the middle of land warfare in the middle of nowhere. It's gonna be a
Miss and as soon as we got rid of the sub guns and started carrying long guns for close quarter bow
That's that's one of the styles
Yeah, and it was always always gonna be a mix whether you're coming over the beach. Yeah, you're coming in
Even going on to a ship
Yeah, oh yeah because people were
Some people want to stick with sub guns because you're going on a ship. I don't love the sub guns. Oh, yeah, for sure. They're awesome for sure
But at a hundred yard fan tells you
150 yeah, you got you could have some issues. Yeah, big issues. Yeah
Yeah, I
What point in your career did you start to feel confident in operating
Killing the enemy and making sure your brothers came home with you. Did you start to feel like you could do it every day and be successful?
Yeah, I always felt like
Yeah, how many platoons did it take before you started feeling confident? I like one
I mean, I always felt like I was good to go. Yeah, I could do this. I can
Fan I have fantasized about I would admit it. I couldn't wait to kill anybody. You know, I loved it
Because that's your job like yeah, and it was it was kind of a let down like it was like you know
You think like in a movie, you know, you train so much so bang all right on the next one
But I felt it right away
It's not that that was never the issue the issue has always been confident as a leader
Hmm
That took a while. It wasn't immediate it took it took me a while. How good were you as an LPL when you're any five I thought I was pretty good, but when you look back on it
No, I was okay because we didn't have a lot of
I was basically really good at the basics. Yeah, and if the I always felt like
Rule once I got done with a job I would rule want to go back and do it again and I'd feel like I would do it so awesome
And you don't get to do that right you don't I did a platoon commander. I was like um
And I you know, I did fine. Yeah, but like it seems like I don't know like I should have done this
I should have done that as it's you commander. I got done. I was like I should have done this. I should have done that
Just want to do better. Well absolutely
I mean the LPO thing when you're a piece time LPO
I don't know
Those always mix it up and
Everybody seemed to like me. I mean it didn't pitch too much couple guys did, but it was all good
You can't do everything. Yeah, all the team guys under your friggin belt
This is gonna be guys. Oh, he was a fucking asshole and he just fucking did this was stupid
Of course, it's gonna be that you know, but I think for the most part
I mean I did all right try to I mean I could have done better like
Telling people how oh, you know you're doing good and you know, it's all okay
No, I'm glad I was a dick kind of but we say that not a dick, but if not you say that like
And the late pointed me at this out to me the other day and he remembered it and it's funny because I had just written about it
What I wrote about was like if a pollton it at
Land warfare was doing good
I wouldn't say like this is when I was in trade it. I wouldn't say hey you guys kicked ass as a task unit
I wouldn't say hey you guys I'd say hey bill
Yeah, you and your fire team did a good job
Holden down the black side of that target and hey Mike when you grab that other guy and you flank those
Down the hill that was awesome
Because but I would never just say collectively
I know what that awesome because then what happens is they all fall apart
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what kind of what you did too
You used it if somebody if somebody did something good
You would tell them they did good yeah if
If
You wouldn't be like hey everyone did great no
Of course not because the chances of that it's like false like oh
You know everything who did was amazing. This is amazing everything's amazing that's so
Stupid I hate that like you did your job like what do you want a fucking metal
Now here's your metal. There's an emory
I go over there and be stupid
Go get your shit ready we got another off and besides you know
It's not like I talked down everybody these are my brothers like yeah, man that was cool
That's about the best team guy complimenting it yeah, that one all right. Yeah good job. Yeah, okay cool
That's yeah, I'm on the next thing
Guys like yeah, I gotta go to the head, but whatever
It's like no big deal
Last question. Do you still smile when you hear a stand-by to get some yeah?
It's pretty cool. I mean come on
It's like you know it's gonna happen and you know on after a while
It's a
Fuck yeah, yeah, bring it you know it's like that cat there
I
When the
Ted Williams
Teddy ball game. I mean he was hitting 402
And he had the two game series and like man you're hitting over 400 just don't play
You know you're the only guys ever hit over 400 he's like fuck that
He went like
Three for five and he went to like 406 407 and he rusted all cuz yeah, I'm I'm playing
Man, I'm money. This is a guy who took time off flight jets and Korea or a Vint or a war to
And Korea I mean like yeah
What are we gonna do like okay? We're gonna we're going home in a week
We're not gonna do this up fuck you we're not gonna do this up
You know then you know we go home
I mean what if you're to die right for you so what that's why I'm here
I mean if that happens it happens it gives a fuck
I mean it's what it is right
That is what it seems shit that that trumps everything
It's like teams and shit. Okay. I'm a team guy that's it. All right done
Yes indeed
Good to see you better
Good to see you brother
Good to see you man
Awesome to have you back on yeah, I'm glad I could man and
Hopefully I'll see you up in Maine
If you can swing by
Yeah, that'd be cool. I'm sure a bunch of people gonna want to meet you up there. I already tell you on my cats back home
He's like oh, I'll fucking drive the Harley down there. I'm all sat
Echo
Yes, speaking of standing by to get some
What do you got how can we be more prepared to get some as they say?
Anyways, all right well one way as we always say is jujitsu
Tony yeah, that was a little bit about that as well
When you do jujitsu we need geese right unless you're doing no gee but we recommend gee and no geese so when you get a gee where we get them
Origin so this is so Tony's from New England and you know Tony and I were talking me yesterday
And man if you grew up in New England then you saw the economy get just annihilated
Yep, and
Whether it was the
The factories that were shutting out the textile factories that were shutting down the clothing manufacturers the shoe manufacturers all these the paper
Manufacturers back home. Yeah got shut down and
You know it's one of those things that
When I when I talk to companies and they say well, you know you were dealing with you were doing with life and death
And we're not and I say yeah, but you're dealing with people's livelihoods and what what as a as a
A mom as a dad your livelihood is how that's your life that is your life and so
If you grew up in New England and and a New England's not the only place because it's all over America when you manufacturing got taken away
And sent overseas it's a nightmare you go up to these towns and there's no work
Not that people don't want to work believe me they're New Englanders they want to work
Yeah, and I keep saying New Englanders because but it's everywhere
But it's everywhere yeah Americans want to work and so you know with origin and when you come up and see the factory you know we got
45 or 50 folks now
employed in farming tin
Which is awesome main the up farming tin main and you know it's like
Are they employees yeah, yeah, they're employees because they're working there
But you know what they are they're part of what we're doing yeah, they're not a something they're part of something
They're the ones that are actually making the the gear
Making the jitter keys making the jeans we started making jeans. I'll get you some jeans when we get up there
Boots were making boots. I'll get you some boots when we get up there for like
We got folks that have been out of work for 14 years
This fucking stoked and get an after don't to be back. They want nothing more than to come in and and get on those machines
Make the boots make the jeans we just started printing teeth like we're doing everything
We're doing everything so I'll bring you up there if you guys come out
And if you can't make it up then you can come up whenever you want you got to open past to go to the factory and
And check it out and see you know, it's it's just a beautiful thing you go up there and see a town
That's and this is just the starting point man. Yeah, and people people can think I'm you know dreaming
I'm not like we're gonna build this thing
It is gonna be massive we're gonna bring back manufacturing to America and there's no one's gonna stop us
That's what's gonna happen. It's not a no one
so
If you need something like that if you need a geek if you need a rash guard
Get it from origin main dot com if you need a pair of jeans go on there and get them
Somebody said these jeans are expensive
And I said you know what I said you're right you're right. They are too expensive
Right now they're they're not at the price point. We want to get them down to
But as we build more and grow more
We'll be able to get those expenses down, but we have to start somewhere. Yeah, we came out. We usually give them away
No, you got to pay the people. Yeah, we got we got to pay the workers so we're getting there
We will build this and there's nothing's gonna stop us. Yeah, I don't think they're that expensive anyway
Well, well, they're cheaper they're they're more expensive than a pair of
Mass-produced
jeans from China in a sweatshop where they're playing it with their paying their employees right literally 50 cents a day
So yes, our jeans more expensive than I thought last forever. They're a hundred bucks
Don't have you buy two pairs of 200 bucks. So anyways
That's the deal and if you think that's
If you think a hundred bucks is too much, hey, man. I get it
Save up save up get yourself a pair of now really get yourself a pair of jeans made in China
That are made in a sweatshop where you know some the corporate the corporation is gonna make all the money and none of it's gonna come back here to America
So all right, sorry I'm getting a little crazy right now, but these back
If you don't buy jeans, there's other stuff too
Also good stuff so what supplements so important supplements to keep you in the game joined more fair cruel oil
Which I had an experience and didn't even know it when I went to Hawaii you went off the I went off didn't even realize that
You know you just
Off the krill oil and joint warfare and here's the weird thing my elbow I always say it can't
But it is your correct. Yeah, it was amateur, but and I didn't even realize it till like I don't so I go
You know, and I was lifting I was wearing it in 1990. Yeah, elbow. I had it so bad this one yeah
Yeah, if you go on the joint warfare and krill oil
Okay, if you don't have someone give you some it's good it takes like I guess depends on who you are to me like six days for it to like really start
That's only a couple days more than a cortisol shot though
Really, yeah, right? Yeah, it's like two and a half days you will feel it like you go and read the
The reviews of joint warfare and there's people that are saying oh
I couldn't do I couldn't I couldn't lift my whatever, you know
I couldn't swing my hammer whatever I'm back in the game mobility. Yeah, yeah, so
It's legit so I come back and I'm like okay, let me get you know back in deliver
I was like man. I wasn't lifting that heart in Hawaii and not as often either
I'm like why my elbow kind of on me
Oh my gosh totally hit me. That's like dang you had another instance of me playing myself
But proof you see I'm saying
Anyway, so yeah stay on that joint warfare and krill oil there is also discipline
Good deal, Dave's on the discipline a train big time. I'm with him on that train
Pretty much every day pretty much daily daily discipline. Yeah, yeah in all things and this is this is yet another one
Yes, also milk if you want additional protein in the form of a dessert by the way
What the best desserts out there. No, I never would have thought what I'll do is make a dessert
You that's that's got protein. I wouldn't think that because it doesn't seem like it's a possible feasible thing
Yeah, but then it turns out to be yes. It is one that's yeah
I know and you go a long time one of his favorite things is not actually a saying he's just like talking to you because you're next to him
going
Fucking starving right now
Always
Stier of it like every like okay, we know we ate like an hour and a half
Fucking so hungry like really
Yeah, well now he goes on all these crazy fasts
Intermittent fasting
Yeah
It gets a milk. Yeah, it gets good get some tea some jocquait tea and
And that'll and don't forget about the warrior kid milk. Yeah, which I think is the game changer
Hey, it's gonna be guys from back home a lot of guys watch podcast, but can you just go over the
The dot com again whatever it is or
George and main
dot com main as in the state right MA I any
Yeah, yeah, or do mean that comes we get all this stuff
Also jocquait as a store it's called
Jocco store of course you're super creative with the names and what not put a lot of thought and Jim and it's good turned out good
Anyway, that's where you can get that's shirts
Who was it it was I think Flynn Cochran
He was he was saying that the original jocco product
Was because I used to give like a brief the leadership brief to the guys that were starting and he's like they they called that the jocco brief
And I think about it. Oh, yeah, that's like the original the original jocco product
And then so I can't be just blamed on lack of creativity from my part. Well, yeah, yeah, I guess I can
Yeah, just full on 100% actually
And also you got asked the question did Flynn come up with that
After no jocco bucket no it was it was it was and then Mike's really same thing like all this yeah
The jocco brief you know what though when you kind of think about it what you call it like phonetically or whatever
I don't know if that's the correct word, but like when you say jocco it's kind of matches, you know like jocco store
Jocco brief it's not like it's like you know
You know, yeah, the whole reason to speak you know that story that you just told about me being hungry
The reason this whole thing started with jocco is because when I was on Tim Ferriss's podcast
I fasted that day and he was like well, you know, we've been talking for a long time
You maybe we should go get something eat and I went jocco hungry
Like I was just joking, you know, but then but not really but then like a little while later
It was oh, we're gonna have a podcast and I was like okay jocco podcast almost like I'm a knucklehead right
Or oh no way I actually have a nut
It's a really good jocco podcast that was the original but it sounds good
Unless it's like if you're gonna name something like that start to then oh that's when it wouldn't really work like if it was like a
Ocean jocco ocean
That kind of sounds good I guess no, you take over an ocean somewhere well, you know
Hypothetically
She's a jocco store so you can get shirts this little equals freedom boom more rash cards on there too
By the way, which are which are origin rash cards?
Yes, they made America jocco taco
Jocco that would be good. No, no, that works. You know a good jocco taco. Oh, yeah
There's a place like a poco's tacos shop
That'll be the jocco beef. I need to start a taco shop. Wow
One hot yeah, man as well obviously choose we'll have to talk to George and he's a judge far fan yeah
Oh, yeah, maybe can't find one taco drop around here
Yeah, yeah, we might get with my oldest daughter who's the college now my oldest daughter comes home then she'll like fly home and
She will stop at a taco shop. Oh, yeah, and so yeah, we've gone from the airport
That's just like a side of the whole coast looking for to see you you're gonna be home in 10 minutes
He's like no, no, no, I'm gonna have an hour because I'm gonna get a taco. Oh, absolutely
Going to California, burrito. Oh, I had like three of the last four days
Oh, so good. You just can't change that
So cool jocco ocean jocco tacos and jocco store of course like we're saying
Shirt's rash cards hoodies hats, you know all kinds of stuff
You're gonna represent while you're on the path boom good place to do so also
Subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already if you're into it
If you're into subscribe me super easy, but yeah on Google play, stitcher iTunes, you know don't forget about the warrior kid podcast
For the children stories not just questions, but stories from Uncle Jake about how Uncle Jake
Got his values in life. What made him say?
I should be prepared. You know on the how I tell a story
Uncle Jake goes on a little on a little there's there's a little robot and Uncle Jake and his buddy
When he's eight years old go out on the robot and
While they're out in the robot he says, you know, we're not going to need life jackets because you know
We're just gonna nice day. Yeah, we're just gonna paddle around here
So they're out in the robot and they're clowning around whatever let go of the horse for a second
They both slip out through the
through the or locks
And there's a wind blowing so within five seconds they're they're gone from the inner and middle of the lake
Yeah, and they have to drift all the way to the other side and
Then borrow some, but you know there was that moment where new things were bad
Yeah
So that's when Uncle Jake learned you need to always be prepared for things to go down
That's an actual story too by the way that really happened to me
So there you go story's Michael Jake on a warrior kid podcast
So
Get some of that also speaking of where your kids
It's a worry kid that I know heard of myth not a man not real name is eight in
Making warrior kids not worry kids so Pajaco so he's the warrior kid
That's the now we got chocolate soap too
Jocco things are getting out of here. And that's a good dude. Jocco soap. There's also trooper soap by the way
Which is like another witty called flavor if you will soap not flavors right don't you just like
To use it to wash up and it will help you stay clean. Yes very good smells like
To be honest, yeah, hey, that would be awesome. It smells like war that smelled like corn. I eat or whatever
Oh, yeah, I'm so good. Yeah, yeah, it smells like napalm that victory in the morning
We'll dock away tea tastes like victory
Well, yeah, you know what you say it it should smell like war that kind sort of maybe think of how you and life and actually all you guys would tell us how it war
Smells like some powder in the sewage
That's actually the terrible idea
After the range
The range smells good. You know what does this about good diesel fumes in the back of a sea fox now or when you're in a halo and refueling
Like air and in flight refueling. I don't think I've ever done that that's
After Tara's just diesel every once just like
It's like
And I don't like ever get sick but that stuff, but I was like
I've gotten I've gotten I got c-c-2 times once was in the back of the sea fox fell asleep with the diesel fumes just in and then
Next one was an LCU I was downstairs and a raging storm water proofing the radios in the engine room
It just diesel rocking all in the place I came up and started yacking and the and the BMC that was run in the LCU was hanging is that over the side
Yeah, I was like alright. I'm cleared hot technically is that getting seasick though if it's from the Gulf you? I
Don't know yeah, I never did it. So yeah, you got seasick. Yeah, see never happened to me. There you go
Nonetheless the the the scent
aroma of
The troopers open the jocosope is pretty good. Okay, and very functional by the way you still talk is not that
Yeah, that's very important. I mean we could talk about the diesel fuel
Spumes
Thysicness somewhere if you don't want true. I'll take the hit nicely. No, no, I'm taking up to you
Doing a good job anyway. I'll take the hit also we have a YouTube channel
BTF Tony into YouTube but what?
Not really but yeah, yeah, I would I would be surprised if you were but you did
Dictip various videos nonetheless. We have a YouTube channel with good videos video version of this podcast
Exerps enhanced excerpts enhanced means that echo puts all these effects it on
Like a oh, I got to watch that
I got these explosions
These are on fire
So you want to have this absolutely yeah, but yeah, YouTube channel jocopotcast boom also psychological warfare
Psychological warfare. Yeah, what is that brown? It's an always get mad at me
Explaining it. You know have the best exit go to here's here's a psychological if you ask for an alarm clock
Which is kind of where they started if you're if you're asking for an alarm clock
That as me telling you to get up there's where you get it psychological warfare
It's on iTunes and song Google play it's on MP3
It actually started when echo asked me a question about something and I was like here's the answer and then he was like
I'm gonna record that and then we just
One from there. Yeah, that's cool the question was
Yeah, we don't press it one and it was with me was with workout so like when I work out or when I
Plan a workout and it just really don't feel like it and you know that's a common thing like
Yeah, you just do it anyway. You don't be a BTF through it. Right
Some thinking man. I wish I was better at BTF
In through it
Seems saying I was too lately
I know about seat it's a real thing so I'm like I want you know because I can imagine you know jockel just be TF through it
So I'm like, but what do you like say you know like what what goes on in your mind?
Do you just not think about it at all and you just sort of automatically do it? Do you say something or I don't know like what is it?
You know what's the message? I like two weeks ago. I turned 51 and I'm like
Actually made it past 50
Get a fucking beat this it's got to do some right
Yeah, you know especially when you think you're gonna not make it the 30 first year. Oh, yeah, I'm like
I don't know there you go. It doesn't get any the old the everyday you get all there it gets terrible
You wake up you're like oh what is this now
Like here
What's this? I realized you know how I've said one of the things I
Notice about getting older is and I don't notice that much and I don't admit that
So even if I was in a ton of pain, I wouldn't tell anyone
But one of the things that I have admitted is that my first couple rounds of jujitsu
I'm I'm I use a couple rounds of warm up now
You know especially especially if I'm going with
Dean and Andy so Andy didn't used to be in this bracket. He's in there now
So
He's the other thing I noticed I
Once my because I couldn't run when I heard my knee and so now that my knees like
Getting better I can run again not you know crazy but what I noticed is
Same thing if the first like the first half mile that I run
I just I must look like a person that's just never run
Or even and then the longer I run when I mean the first half that you run more
Like what did you do when I'm coming home and I'm once I'm warmed up
I'm like oh yeah cool cool
Then that's one thing that sucks is when you were young
You just didn't have to do anything and you'd show to you
You didn't do anything for three months and then you show up at a team
They're like hey we're doing a nine mile one today. You bet cold just go out and do it and you find
Now you like the first first half mile
You got a flat tail like what run this shit
Yeah, if you want a
Visual version
Of little things to keep you on the path
Then go to flipsidecampus.com to code a Meyer. He's got a company there again made in America made right in Austin Texas
Making cool
Art work I'm trying to think of a better word for that because I don't like saying artwork you don't match I know same
I know but is it a better word?
I don't know no I think it's artwork visual inspirational
Shep, you know inspirational might be worse
Inspiration I mean as far as John was saying it I dig it it's inspirational stuff
factually but we know it for lack of a better turn
Flipsidecampus.com for whatever you want to call it you hang it on your walls
Yeah, you know I he named it that because the last thing he said to
one of his
teammates in Afghanistan was all right man. We'll see on the flipside and everyone on his team died
I include in that guy and so he's like that's what this is that's what the name is
Perfect from man. So support Dakota and his company flipsidecampus.com
He's making all kinds of good cool
Graphics that better. I fix on there but that's not the end product
I'm gonna think of something eventually maybe I'll make up a word for it like mok. Yeah, maybe
Yeah, I think you did do that. I think about it watch this
Jocco campus. Yeah, that doesn't matter no
And the last also on it so on it.com slash jocco this is where you can get work out gear
There's some cool. Do you have Sam, do you do sand bass did you watch my uh little clip I put out my edit
The time lapse. Yeah, I did I didn't pay max attention so you got sand bags on there. Yeah, okay
Because I was on yeah
By the way, friends and one that that band that I clipped out there it's called life's blood
It's an old school hardcore band from upstate New York. That's from an old seven inch
That Elgin James sent me because we we there was a great band. They're great band
They're the lead singer is now a cop somewhere in Atlanta or something
But anyways that's life's blood. I don't know where you can find it, but that's the music
That's the music that I edited in the hell. Yeah, I'm gonna take echoes job from them. That's friggin dangerous
There won't maybe I'll take over actual in front. Maybe do the briefings on that. Yeah, let's see yeah, maybe I will check
So anyway what I was trying to say about the sand bags is when I was getting stuff yeah
From on it I saw the sand bags. I was like I'm gonna get this. I don't have a sand bag routine yet
For those who don't wonder what I was doing the sand bag. I picked it up a throw it off my shoulder turn around pick it up
Throw my one of my shoulder. Oh, yeah, I'll be because it I don't have a year
I don't know just I don't know
My son when he came home from wrestling camp and he was like, you know kind of
Kind of walking around the house. You know, you did two weeks wrestling the really good wrestling camp called
J-Rob
14 day intensive wrestling camp awesome camp and they
They they put these guys through the ringer. It's wake up in the morning conditioning
breakfast
Wrestling lunch wrestling dinner conditioning and they do that for 14 day straight
To graduate
You have to the last thing you do is a 12 mile run so like it's and you're all beat down when you're doing that so yeah
When he came home from that, you know he was kind of bowing up a little bit. Oh, yeah
That didn't happen. Yeah, he was bowing up and I said oh you went to a little one
Tell you what I ain't gonna do the sand bag and stuff. I was like yeah, do this this this and that's
He liked that sand bag. Oh, yeah, all right. Well, I'm gonna take another look at that because I think I am gonna get this
And they're usually definitely get one also yes kettle bells on there. That's where all my kettle bells are from and yeah
a lot of good stuff on that go there on it dot com slash jockel. Hey, I wrote a bunch of books
Way the warrior kid
Warrior kid two marks mentioned warrior kid three where there's a will Mikey in the dragons
And this when the Chris freedom field manual
Extreme ownership in the economy leadership. These are a bunch of books. I wrote if you like what we're talking about here
If you're an adult get the adult books if you're a kid get the kids book if you have kids get them the kids books
And
You might want to check out the kids books even if you're an adult
Yes
So there you go. Ashland front that's our leadership consultancy
And what we do is solve problems through leadership go to ashland front dot com for details
So what we do all day every day e f on line
This is leadership training online interactive and
Put you on the spot ask you questions
When you when you
Become a leader
Or when you're gonna become a leader
You're not gonna learn everything in one shot and just like an arm walk you don't learn it one time and now you're good
You have to practice and that's at e f on line dot com will allow you to do we got the monster next monster coming up September 19th and 20th and Denver
And then December 4th and 5th and Sydney, Australia extreme ownership dot com for details if you want to come sign up right now because otherwise
It's gonna sell out they've also dealt
And of course we got a f over watch
Where we're taking proven spec ops leaders and combat aviation leaders and placing them into companies in a civilian sector
That need one thing more than anything else to win and that is they need leaders
And if you don't feel like we've
Talked for a long enough and you want to talk to us more you can find us on the interwebs
Tony is
at frogman and
H
Do you think you know your password? Yeah, I got it somewhere. Yeah
People are gonna want to like ask you questions and then you can be like
Yeah, 99% of my text back and forth with Tony yeah, it's ridiculous you guys should see it
If I if you link up with me or talk and you like jockel what were you guys talking about?
I'll be yeah, yeah check this because I don't really erase anything with that
Yeah, yeah, his jocos text
Like 70 lines my t's just crying
What do you want a crap or something? I have all this time I can do like three lines and then he's like
And also echo when I run Twitter we're also on Instagram and we're also on the fruiting bogan
She's frozen brogan echo is that echo Charles and I am at darkwalk echo anything else no sir
Nothing else thanks BTF Tony. Tony. I know it's brother pleasure my brother
No, man, thank you for having me on good to see you guys
Yeah, nice pad here now. It's it's good to go never been here
Yeah, awesome like the shout out to all my friends back home, you know if I don't
Anybody and everybody I know and I'm in San Diego right now and all my team guy buddies and my girlfriend back in
My earth you know my earth back home and all my charms back there
Yeah, I see you guys soon and thanks for having me on always a pleasure guys your class act
We're man and teams in shit
Thanks for coming back on again, obviously and
And hopefully I'll see you in a hundred and fifty episodes. Yeah, I'm here in fifty episodes since you can you on episode 41
Or now on a 191 Wow, it's crazy. It's ridiculous. Yeah, we got to do next time we do this we got to have someone in here
Like
With me someone else with me because this like one and you know I'm running I'm not that interesting
I can't remember any shit half the time and no what you should do is next time
We'll listen to this one and then go and write down notes of what you want to talk about next time and like like five stories or whatever
Oh yeah, things like whatever if we could get on like someone we were talking about like my first LPO
Someone like yeah, I get someone like that on yeah with me. Oh, yeah for sure
Just me yeah, you guys yeah, yeah, no man
Any but any of them oh
I want to come on. I if I get to have him come on
That'd be a sick. Oh, oh, I ask him. Yeah asking and
Yeah, man we'll do it again
And see in Maine. Yeah, we'll see in Maine. Thanks for coming back thanks for
Thanks for everything you did
Thank you brother you know holding that thread
That I was talking about earlier that thread
Through the years when there was no war going on there is plenty of people that
That you know they did their job and they went on their deployments or whatever you were freaking tone the line man
You were tone the line and and keep in that knowledge base improving that knowledge base
That's what you did to so that when we got to war
We were ready so thanks for doing that. Oh my pleasure for the teams
Thanks for everything you did for bruiser of course
And as far as I'm concerned you're actually the model of the American fighting man
You're the mother fucker
That went up against the Japanese and the Nazis and said you know what we don't care what kind of warrior culture that you have
We got something else where Americans and we're about to fuck you up. That's great
We got something that none of you other countries have
I'm gonna go what like fucking John Wayne
If you can produce anyone a quarter as good as that man
Then I'll maybe listen to you we have fucking John Wayne
Best guy ever in the history of ever
You know, you know if you might or solve to him in everyday life then you got an unknowable
What would John Wayne do he there go yes now or punch you
Good on and then you have a bunch of whiskey
And then you know shoot a bunch of people and get on his horse and go have a steak and smoke like 200 cigarettes good plan
Good plan a
Awesome everyone else all the other veterans out there that have served
Thanks for what you've done those that are serving right now
Thanks for what you continue to do to our police and law enforcement and firefighters paramedics EMTs dispatchers
BP border patrol correction officers secret service all the first responders out there. Thank you for your service
here at home and
to everyone else out there
You know
You're gonna make mistakes you're not gonna be perfect things are gonna go wrong
And when things go wrong
It's pretty easy just to say you know what I'm gonna stand down and I'm gonna take a knee or I'm gonna give up
And you can do that
Or you can do what Tony would do which is grab your gear
Then just grab a night
F until you get things back on
track
And that's what I recommend you do
So until next time
This is BTF Tony and echo and jacco out